Every decade there's more evolution out
of the S&P 500.
>> The three largest sectors representing
the S&P are down on the year.
>> This is the most transformative uh trend
that I believe we will see in our
lifetime.
>> I wouldn't be surprised if we start to
see a little bit of move back into tech.
>> Trying to predict when these things are
going to pop. There's a fool's game.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, shaken by geopolitics.
>> What is the goal if there is a US
military?
>> Well, we either make a deal or we're
going to get a deal one way or the
other. I would think that'll be enough
time 10 15 days pretty much maximum.
>> The high pressure campaign on Iran
keeping investors very much on edge as
some private credit firms are struggling
to regain confidence. Economists are
looking for the latest read on the US
economy, the latest GDP data just around
the corner.
>> So today's Jonathan is really filled
with data and deadlines and deadlines
when it comes to this administration.
The president yesterday putting a time
frame on when a deal needs to be done
with Tyrron or potentially a strike. He
said 10 to 15 days and he talked about
either make a deal or quote really bad
things will happen. What we need to
remember though, last summer when the
president gave a deadline of about two
weeks, what happened within within days,
B2 bombers flew over Iran and struck
their nuclear facilities. So potentially
this is also a tactic that he is using
to try to distract the Iranian regime.
>> So crude responded to this. It's lower
this morning by about a half of 1% on
Bren and WTI, but the rally we've seen
over the previous two days, 6% plus.
Clearly the equipment in the region,
it's all about the optics. You want to
signal maximum pressure and a bunch of
different options. But this is outside
of the president's traditional playbook.
And you and I have talked about that
repeatedly. The president's playbook is
targeted fast, a clear objective that
ultimately leads to a period of
deescalation. It's not about getting
bogged down in a regional war.
>> And it's really hard to do that with
Iran because we know what immediately
their tactics are going to be in terms
of response and also what the US wants
them to do in terms of a deal. these
three red lines. Iran has never had that
sort of engagement and have never had
that appetite to come to the table. Wall
Street Journal yesterday said what the
president is weighing right now is an
initial limited military strike to force
his demands on this deal as a first step
designed to pressure Iran. That would be
the first initial strike. But then what
happens after? That's the question.
>> So we've got to stay on top of this
story and this one too. Check out Blue L
in the pre-market struggling to recover
following yesterday's slide. We're down
by 2%, down six yesterday. This is what
we've learned through the week so far.
Blue said it's restricting withdrawals
from one of its retail focused private
credit funds. So, this is about
redemptions. In addition to that, they
found four buyers for a portfolio of
loans to help pay out investors three of
North America's biggest pension funds
and the headline and a big headline
here, its own insurance firm, which will
come across to many as somewhat
controversial. This is what the
company's got to say. Contrary to what
has been reported, we are not halting
investor liquidity. We're accelerating
the return of capital. There is going to
be plenty of questions about this and we
can talk about blueout as a firm. We can
talk about private credit markets. But
the number one question I think a lot of
people will have for the bullcase for
the US economy. Private markets have
driven this economy for quite a while.
What happens if that credit availability
starts to dry up? And that's a
conversation we'll have in just a
moment.
>> That's a huge conversation and it's very
concerning to a lot of individuals
looking at this. The Blue O CEO also
said, "We're simply changing the method
by which we provide redemptions." This
is why a lot of people have concern
about what is actually going on. And you
know what, Jonathan, it's always
peculiar when JP Morgan's Jaime Diamond
October of last year talked about
cockroaches in the private credit
market. And then what did we hear
yesterday from Senator Elizabeth Warren
on the same side of Jaime Diamond
talking about how this is a concern and
concern that she has as a center for
retail investors that are involved in
this space? We've got a lot to talk
about this morning. Kamigab will catch
up with George Convers of MUFG with
investors very much on edge. Steven Kirk
of the Council on Foreign Relations as
the US moves closer to striking Iran and
John Hill of Barclays ahead of the
latest read on inflation. We begin this
hour with stocks struggling to bounce
with a fresh slate of data very much on
deck. George Canas of MUFG writing,
"There is high conviction. It's going to
be about a year. The jury is still out
and we believe markets will resolve this
inconsistency." George joins us now for
more. George, good morning. Good
morning.
>> You do not seem to buy the high
conviction outlook that this economy is
going to rally and rally hard.
>> Yeah. No, look, I think this it's all
about this whole starting points which
has been a big theme of ours. Um, and
you know, we like your your intro about
the private credit. You we have a lot of
moving parts. We have this uh idea that
we're going to rotate out of the really
highly valued uh sectors like technology
into the industries that need it. Those
industries have been kind of kept afloat
by low rates over the last 10-15 years
and by a lot of private credit as well.
And so like if you start to kind of have
a you know wrinkles in and and some sort
of constraint on credit in in those
areas middle market type lending and
middle small businesses will suffer from
that. So like how can you rotate
>> in this piece by piece because this is
an important story and whenever we see
issues like this emerge and we've seen
issues like this emerge repeatedly over
the last decade or so. You'll see the
comparisons you'll hear the comparisons
to 2007 2008 the canaries beginning to
fall in the private market coal mine.
What's your response to that kind of
language, that kind of coverage over the
past few days?
>> Look, I think it's it's uh worth
monitoring, but this really starts, you
know, to Emry's point like really last
year in October, right, with with just
the focus around the actual individual
credits into the the actual providers of
the credit. Um, you know, and you know,
at the same time, we have this big focus
around potentially bank deregulation.
you maybe this is kind of like part and
parcel fatal complete from 15 18 years
of banks being overc capitalized not
really lending to the real economy and
that forced private credit to take the
place and maybe we're coming full circle
on that
>> we've heard repeatedly coming out of the
band Mick that corporate balance sheets
are a whole lot stronger that consumer
balance sheets are a whole lot stronger
are you seeing stress on the consumer
side starting to emerge as well or have
you got the all clear on that front
>> I mean you cannot look at data in
aggregate that's the whole problem it's
been something we all been talking about
this the K-shaped economy
the, you know, the 80 90% are stressed.
We cannot deny that. And so that's why
it comes down to, you know, uh,
collateral, market valuations, and, you
know, can we really truly have that, you
know, perfect rotation into the
industries that need capital?
>> Based on the conversation we've had and
that you've had with your clients, would
you have guessed that we're only 2%
below alltime highs on the S&P 500?
>> Yeah. Listen, at the same time though,
we've been coiling for quite some time.
Really, really since October and
November, we haven't gone anywhere,
right? So with all this sort of optimism
on growth, why isn't it being reflected
in the markets? It's clear this bull
market has stalled. That's one way of
putting it. There's a vicious rotation
though beneath the surface. And to your
point, the question we've got at the
moment is whether that can be sustained
into the more cyclical parts of the
equity story. And maybe in conflict with
that is what's developing in the bond
market. The fact that yields have come
down to 4% on tens. Now, repeatedly
we've heard on this program there's not
much oxygen down here, that we can't
stay at these levels, that yields have
to climb, have to bounce. Do you agree?
>> I don't agree.
>> Why?
>> Look, a number of reasons. Um, we could
take a even bigger zoom out. Look at
what's happening in Japan. Japan's
inflation's turned the corner. Japan's
rates are starting to head lower. We're
still a funible global bond market and
people are looking for the highest
yields. And so like um you you kind of
couch that with what we still think the
Fed's going to cut three times this year
and and you kind of think about like the
concerns around fiscal. And look,
today's announcement from the Supreme
Court, the whatever the we get there
might have an impact on the bond market.
But even then, like there's there's at
least a turn on the fiscal outlook that
looks a little bit better, more stable
at a minimum. So you take away the
fiscal u sort of concerns on the bond
market. Now you're back to pure
fundamentals. And if you think about the
rotation that's happening in the equity
markets and you kind of compare and
contrast to the bond market, it feels
defensive. Like why are why are bonds
rallying at the same time as everyone's
rotating? George, why would we get a
reaction though in the bond market if
this administration has been clear for
months that regardless of AIPA, they
will find other ways to enact their
tariff policy?
>> That's true. It all depends on timing,
rebuttal, and I just feel like, you
know, consider, you know, you you'll
have a market reaction if it's, you
know, if it's a sort of struck down and
and we do think there was probably a
plan B and plan C to your point. Uh, but
I still think the market would react to
it. Yeah.
>> Why do you still see three rate cuts
even though we have individuals like Fed
Governor Myron coming out and saying he
is seeing, you know, a more robust labor
market than he was expecting as well as
goods inflation firming.
>> Look, goods inflation is a small part of
the the inflation basket. Uh the
disinflation that's happening in the
housing market, the housing market is
still stalled. If we do ever get the
housing market to open up, I still think
prices head lower first before they head
higher. That's still, you know,
disinflationary.
The Fed has been uh scared by inflation
for the last couple years and in many in
many ways they've done a disservice.
They should have cut rates and been
done. They should have been done by now.
Like ultimately they should have been
done like those three cuts that I've
been kind of having in the back of my
mind for quite some time. They should
have been done and then they would had a
much more level playing field to figure
out where to go to next. You know how
you know the minute saying that they're
thinking about hiking that that's that
that was too premature.
>> Well, let's get to the commitment to 2%.
This is what they've got to say about
things that several participants
cautioned that easing policy further in
the context of elevated inflation could
be misinterpreted as implying diminished
policymaker commitment to the 2%
inflation objective. Is that a
misinterpretation or just reality that
they've been above target for 5 years
and ultimately
>> months? Yes. Five years
>> the commitment to 2% has diminished.
Isn't that the ultimate conclusion for
most people?
>> It is. But also it's all about the
outlook of where you think you're going
to end up landing. Right. They cut when
when inflation was even higher, right?
They started cutting when inflation was
even higher. So this idea that now
they're kind of getting skittish around
what the what the landing looks like, I
think that's it's too
>> you've heard what we've heard and this
is how it plays out in this program.
People come on and we'll say to them,
are the Federal Reserve officials as
they stand going to cut interest rates?
And they'll turn around and say no, but
I expect an interest rate cut later this
year or I expect two or three interest
rate cuts later this year. There is a
belief that we've established a
prolonged pause now on the FOMC until
there's a change of leadership and that
once we get a change of leadership, the
rate cuts begin again. Do you agree with
that? That's very convenient. That's the
problem. Everyone puts all their views
in the second half of the year because
it's it gives you time to kind of think
about it. Like our our view is more
nuanced in the sense that uh this Fed,
any Fed will do the right thing if the
data turns. And look, the jobs data that
we've we've had up until now, it's not
that great. And and just to kind of bank
on one number doesn't make any sense,
especially if there's a high chance of
it being revised in the in the
subsequent months. So if we get a series
of low uh you know weaker jobs data and
inflation still heading in the right
direction I wouldn't put past uh you
know chair pal you know cutting out his
last meeting.
>> George you also had four though
originally priced in and then a few
weeks ago you took it down to three.
Why?
>> I mean look I mean the Fed obviously is
u you know not in a like showing a sense
of urgency to cut rates and the window
does kind of compress as you move
forward in time and I still think that
there's going to be a reluctance to cut
right ahead of the midterms. So you kind
of you get into this kind of
>> late
not about being political. It's just
about more about when is it going to
matter most like you have to start
easing sooner and then you kind of see
the the net benefits of it.
>> Hey George, it's good to see you. Thanks
for dropping by. Lots to get through.
George Canas there of MUFG this morning
at the front end of the curve. Yields up
by a single basis point 347. Equities
were positive on the S&P then rolled
over in the last 20 minutes or so. We're
now just about unchanged on the session.
with an update on stories worldwide.
Let's get your Bloomberg brief. Here it
is with your Hira. Hey Yhierra.
>> Hi John. The United Kingdom recording
its biggest budget surplus on record.
Revenue exceeding spending by over $40
billion in January, well above economic
forecast. The figures were boosted by a
surge in inflows of capital gains tax
and lower debt payments. Meanwhile,
Nvidia is close to finalizing a $30
billion investment in Open AI. Financial
Times reporting this will replace the
long-term $100 billion commitment the
companies agreed to last year.
Negotiations are in the final stages and
could be finalized as early as this
weekend. And a check on shares of Blue
Owl. They are now falling 3% in the
pre-market. The alternative investment
firm saying it will restrict withdrawals
from one of its retail focused private
credit funds. The company says the fund
will instead return capital over time
through loan repayments and asset sales,
renewing questions about liquidity and
private credit. Dr. Bloomberg briefed.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yihara later this hour. Up
next on the program, a final warning to
Iran.
>> What is the goal if there is a US
military?
>> No way to make a deal or we're going to
get a deal one way the other. 10 15 days
pretty much maximum.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Steven Cook
of the Council on Foreign Relations live
from New York City. this morning. Good
morning.
This is how we set up going into the
weekend. Data at 8:30 Eastern time. PCE,
GDP, and a whole lot more. Look out for
that. After that, you consumer
confidence going into the weekend.
Consumer confidence has been rock bottom
on some readings. We're looking for a
rebound. I think we're all hoping for a
rebound for the year ahead. Let's turn
to the equity market. That bounce in the
equity market. Can it hold unchanged
this morning on the S&P going nowhere on
the NASDAQ, slightly lower on the
Russell. Investors on edge for a bunch
of reasons. Private markets will talk
about that, but also concerns about the
Middle East. Check out crude following a
6% plus move for the previous two days.
We're at 66 on WCI. Bren just north of
71.
>> Well, there's heightened geopolitical
worries right now when it comes to the
Middle East and the buildup of military
hardware in that region. It looks like
the president could be poised to make a
decision to strike Iran or use it as a
negotiating tactic to bring them to the
table. Either way, the president gave a
deadline 10 to 15 days. He said in some
way a deal will be done.
>> Let's stay on that story. Under
surveillance this morning, a final
warning to Iran.
>> What is the goal if there is a US
military?
>> Well, we're either to make a deal or
we're going to get a deal one way or the
other. We're either going to get a deal
or it's going to be unfortunate for
them. I would think that'll be enough
time 10 15 days pretty much maximum.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
US amassing its largest military buildup
in decades around Iran with current and
former officials saying the Trump
administration appears ready for strikes
on military and strategic targets.
Jonathan Tamari of Bloomberg government
joins us now from Washington for more.
Jonathan, we often throw this around and
ask people to define success, but I'm
struggling to define success on this
front. What would success actually look
like if the administration goes forward
with military action?
I think that's one of the really big
questions that a lot of people are
asking because they have not been making
a public case to the country about what
their goals are here. Uh what they would
see as success. Uh why they've chosen
now to to have this large buildup. We
know that the the president wants to end
or or decimate the the nuclear program.
He's been trying that ever since he got
back into office. But what exactly that
looks like? Does he want regime change?
um does he want is there a certain
measurements of of where their nuclear
program stands? That's all unclear. It
could be part of his negotiating tactic
to keep people off balance, but it also
leaves the public and much of Congress
in the dark about what exactly the goal
is here.
>> So, Jonathan, this is really important.
The president, I think, articulated a
pretty clear objective when they went
into Caracus. It was very clear was
about removing Maduro. Whether you
believe that should have happened or
not, that's a different conversation.
The objective was very clear on this
front. Destabilizing the regime, taking
out the regime, eliminating military
capabilities. There's a whole range of
things. I'm struggling to understand why
they're almost refusing to articulate
clearly what they want to achieve in
Iran.
This has been the president's uh tactic,
I think, on on many of these foreign
affairs issues uh in his second term. He
believes he's in acting and basically
facing the consequences later. he
believes he's got the power to do it.
And I think there's a certain appeal in
the fact that he has had a number of
strikes, military actions, Venezuela
being probably the most prominent one
where they he has gotten very quick
results, has not had to go through, you
know, the the process and the delays and
the bureaucratic situation that you get
when you go through Congress. I think he
likes the fact that he's able to get
very quick results, uh, very positive
results so far. But again, as we've
pointed out here, this is a whole we're
talking about a different thing with the
level of buildup that's happening here
with an involvement so far overseas and
an uncertain an uncertain outcome and an
uncertain path of what happens if a
conflict does begin.
>> Jonathan, appreciate your time as always
down in Washington. Jonathan Tamari
there. Joining us to discuss is Steven
Kirk, the senior Middle East fellow at
CFR. Stephen, welcome back to the
program. I asked Jonathan, our
colleague, what does success look like?
Struggle to answer. Think most people
do. But there's an additional question
we've all got to ask as well. What is
success and are the risks of pursuing it
worth it? What's the answer to that,
Stephen?
>> Well, first on the question of success,
the success is anything that President
Trump defines it as. And I think that
that's the that's the issue here. And
that's what I think people are
struggling with. he uh operates in a
totally different foreign policy level
than most of us who've grown up around
the US foreign policy establishment
which is he could very well order the
strikes and however they come out he'll
declare it a success whether it's regime
change or attacking the uh Iran nuclear
program now you asked a very important
question about the risks the risks are
of course uh one that it does not work
uh and that the regime remains in place
uh retaliates against uh American
partners in the region. Uh fires on
American uh forces in the region and
we're often running into a broader
regional war. That is, I think, the
worst case scenario for the United
States. The Iranians are greatly
weakened, but the Iranians still have
the ability to cause a lot of trouble
around the region. So, if the United
States goes, it's going to have to be
sure that it's going to be able to
affect the kinds of changes it's
seeking. The question is what are those
changes? Is it removing the nuclear
program which by the way last June the
president said was totally obliterated?
Is it regime change? Is it going after
the ballistic missile program as the
Israelis have been have been advising?
Uh we won't know if until if and when he
orders those strikes.
>> Stephen, if there is a strike, what do
you expect the Iranians to do
immediately in terms of retaliation?
>> Yeah, they have been full of bravado in
the last week. Um they conducted an
exercise for several hours in the
straight of Hormuz, the very strategic
waterway that connects the Persian Gulf
and the Indian Ocean. Uh they have
threatened uh to rain missiles down on
Tel Aviv. I think that that is probably
the most likely uh response from the
Iranians, which is why the president has
ordered the USS Gerald R. Ford and its
carrier battle group into the region. uh
that uh group of ships along with the
USS Lincoln provide and augment air
defense systems for Israel's already
robust air defense systems and provides
air cover for America's partners in the
Gulf. Um but uh the Iranians are limited
in terms of their ability to take on the
United States. So that's why it seems
likely they'll use what remains of their
ballistic missile force to try to do a
lot of damage to Israel and perhaps
other partners in the region. When when
the USS Gerald's R. Ford arrives this
weekend, it's going to be a massive
military buildup. Do you think that
buildup is enough for the Iranians to
come to the table in earnest on the
three top issues this administration has
outlined? Ballistic missiles, nuclear,
as well as money to proxies.
>> Well, that would probably the be the
best possible outcome for the Iranians.
Um,
but so far, at least publicly, they are
digging in. They are saying that they
will retain their right to enrich.
They're willing to negotiate enrichment
around the margins. They've come up with
some ideas about a pause, which really
doesn't matter. Uh shipping enriched
uranium out of the country. Um but I
think the the theory is amass a lot of
force. If the Iranians don't capitulate,
then you really do have to use that
force because otherwise your credibility
is blown unless you use it. And the
president has been clear. they either uh
come to terms within the next 10 or 15
days or he's going to use that force.
>> What do you think the outreach will has
been between the administration, allies
in the region, Saudi Arabia, UAE and
Israel as well on the oil front? Do you
think the OPEC members if Iran starts to
strike some tankers or close the
straight of Hermoose? Are they willing
to get some more exports on the market
to keep prices down?
certainly think that the the Saudis and
the Amiradis who have said that they
will not participate in American strikes
on Iran will definitely play ball on the
on the oil front. Um first I think
there's a lot of American force in the
region. So whatever disruptions there
might be to the oil market it'll be
temporary. Um but of course the Iranians
have been putting oil on the market
despite being under heavy sanction. But
I do think um we are at a moment where
the uh the the Saudis and the Maradis
despite um Saudi financial uh and fiscal
uh troubles would play ball if it does
mean uh a a a positive change to Iran.
>> How close is coordination right now
between Israel and the United States?
Because as you said, if there's going to
be a retaliation, it's going to be
across the Israeli skies.
Yeah, there is a very significant amount
of coordination. There has always been a
significant amount of coordination and
at these moments um the United States
and Israel are uh working hand in hand.
The Israelis have said that though this
is going to be an American operation and
they are going to be uh the wingman for
the operation. There's also close
coordination with other members of
SentCom. If you look at where the United
States is moving assets, it is
throughout the region. Um so uh
countries although they are somewhat
reluctant to publicly say that they
support or will participate in this
operation should it come to pass are
nevertheless uh keeping up with their
responsibilities to Sentcom and opening
access to uh to their bases and allowing
the United States to operate from those
bases.
>> Hey Stephen, always good to see you.
Thanks for insight and sharing some of
your experience as well. Steven Cook
there of the Council on Foreign
Relations. This was the week where
things got real for financial markets
and crude started to respond
particularly over the past few days. One
off the back of the Axio story a few
days ago on Iran which read as
following. The Trump administration is
closer to a major war in the Middle East
than most Americans realize it could
begin very soon. And then this from the
journal in the last 24 hours which gives
you a better idea of what the first move
could look like. The the president is
weighing an additional initial limited
military strike on Iran to force it to
meet his demands for a nuclear deal. So
he might have that initial strike to try
to force the Iranians to the table and
they say the Wall Street Journal's
reporting is that this target would be a
few military or government sites. The
question is if Trump was to take that
action, is it enough to force Iran to
the table on three issues? It's not just
nuclear, it's intercontinental ballistic
missiles as well as the support for the
proxies in the region. And that is a big
question mark. But to that Axio's point,
just look on Twitter, you could see all
the hardware in the region. And this
looks like 2003 before the United States
entered Iraq. So Americans should be
prepared.
>> This is a high pressure campaign to
negotiate. We'll see what comes next.
7133 right now. Brent 66 on WTI. Up
next, we'll catch up with George Pollock
of Signnum Global as the president
declares victory on affordability. Plus,
Yhierra drops by with your morning
movers. Shares of blueout continuing to
fall on new fears for private credit.
That stock is down again this morning by
3%.
We snapped a three-day streak without
losses on the S&P in yesterday's
session. This morning, just about
unchanged, no bounce on the S&P 500. On
the Nasdaq, up by a tenth of 1% in the
bond market on the week, yields drifting
higher at the front end of the curve
together with the move in crude. We're
up another basis point this morning, 347
on twos. And with that, encouraged by
the hawkish Fed speaker the last week,
this move on the US dollar, DXY, and the
US dollar looking at its best week of
the year so far, potentially up on the
week, softer on the session, but up on
the week by 1%.
>> And there's only two narratives going
into this when it comes to the dollar.
Obviously, what you said in terms of
traders pairing back their expectations
for the Federal Reserve to cut interest
rates, even someone like George who
thinks that there's going to be three
cuts, he did have it at four at one
point. And then on top of that, if you
really are concerned about huge
geopolitical risks and a flare up in the
Middle East and not just a strike on
Iran, but potentially if that was going
to be a wider regional war, you want to
go into the dollar.
>> Yeah, I can't read the geopolitics. I
don't think anybody can right now. This
could go either way. When you look at
the move in crude with Brent back in the
70s, you start to ask questions about
whether it would restrict contain their
ability to cut interest rates later this
year or whether this tips the economy
over because this economy isn't as
strong as the last time we had a big
energy spike off the back of the
pandemic.
>> It's a great point. A lot of people have
been putting into their forecast,
putting into their how they view this
economy with much lower crude prices. If
you have a strike on Iran or much
regional war, you are going to see
prices spike. How sustained is that
going to be? That's a key question. And
also, as I asked Steen Cook there, are
there going to be other countries that
can quickly tap their production and get
more barrels onto the market?
>> Brent, right now 7139 WTI 6613. As we
counting down to the opening battle
about 3 hours away, let's get you some
single names. Some morning movers.
Yahara has more. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Blue Owl heading for another
day of losses. shares are down 3.3%
in the pre-market after the alternative
investment firm restricted withdrawals
on one of its retail focused private
credit funds. Now investors in that
vehicle won't be able to redeem shares
as usual. So this is becoming a bigger
issue for a sector that was already
caught up in the software selloff due to
ex due to exposure of to that in their
books. Plus also we had the uh cockroach
moment last year in October withricolor
holdings. So this just adding fresh
questions about liquidity in private
markets. Meanwhile, we have Alphabet
leading the MAG 7 this morning, up one
and a half% after it got a meaningful
price target raise from analysts over at
Tigris. Here this raising the price
target from 280 to 415 and keeping their
strong buy. The analysts there making
the case that Alphabet has multiple
powerful growth drivers including
AIdriven ads plus momentum in its cloud
business. And we end on Aami
Technologies. This is a cloud technology
company that gave a weaker profit
outlook than expected. It became the
latest company to warn that rising
memory costs are going to eat into
margins and they're just going to have
to raise prices. So shares are falling
nearly 11%. John
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yhara later
this hour on our radar this morning. The
Supreme Court could announce the fate of
President Donald Trump's tariffs as
early as this morning. Justices may rule
over the president's use of emergency
powers to justify his signature economic
policy. Elsewhere, shares of Blue
falling. The company selling a $ 1.4
billion portfolio of loans to help
return cash to investors. Blue finding
four buyers, including three of North
America's biggest pension funds and its
own insurance firm. And finally, the Fed
Governor Steven Myron changing his tune
on interest rate cuts for the year.
Myron saying a strong labor market and
firming goods inflation would quote make
me undo what I did in December.
>> So he's coming back backtracking
slightly, but he says if I had no more
data in hand right now and had to put a
dot at the March meeting, I would
respond to the data again and probably
end up moving my dot back to where it
was in September. So what we see from
Stephen Meyer is very open in terms of
how he is immediately looking at the
data and what that would mean in terms
of his view on interest rates. He's not
doubling down. He's saying, "I'm going
to move where the data tells me to
move."
>> Some good news on the affordability
front, and this has been a target, a big
effort of this White House under
President Trump. Mortgage rates, they've
fallen to the lowest level in more than
3 years. And I imagine that's going to
be part of the pitch at the State of the
Union next week.
>> Well, remember, we were supposed to have
a huge housing policy directive from
this administration at Davos. The
president was preoccupied with other
things like Greenland. So now I imagine
we are going to get a lot more details
when it comes to housing and making it
more affordable for Americans to climb
on the housing ladder at the State of
the Union. But we have seen already this
president do a lot when it comes to
housing in terms of mortgage back
securities, having the FHFA buy more of
those. But in terms of trying to loosen
up the housing affordability crisis,
there's a lot that potentially could be
done, but people are saying, will it
actually be enough?
>> Let's stay on that story. The president
taking his economic agenda on tour,
declaring victory over affordability.
>> We inherited a mess with high prices and
high inflation and we've turned it
around and we've made it great. They
caused the affordability problem and
we've solved it. What word have you not
heard over the last two weeks?
Affordability.
Because I've won I've won affordability.
This as cost of living concerns are set
to take center stage at the State of the
Union address next week. Joining us now
to discuss is George Pollock of Signnum.
George, welcome to the program. You
heard the president's own words. I'll
repeat them. They cause the
affordability problem and we've solved
it. Does the public agree?
>> No. Unfortunately, while the president
is is respect the president for trying
to frame his message and frame his idea
as we enter the midterms, they have the
public does not agree with him.
Especially if you look at the voting
approval rating with young voters,
Hispanics, black and African and
Asian-American voters, they're all on a
serious decline and they're not
recovering and they feel that the
economy is leaving them behind.
>> George, as you know, the president is
right to point out this is a problem
that he inherited. A problem though that
he now has to own and they have made an
effort on things like housing and we
discussed that mortgage rates have
fallen to their lowest level in more
than three years. There is some runway
here into the midterms. How much more do
they need to do and what options, what
tools, what levers can they pull?
>> Well, look, I think Congress on housing
is going to probably pass housing reform
legislation this year and they're
probably going to include some kind of
provision to ban institutional investors
from buying single family homes. It will
not be at the bar of 100 that the
administration is currently proposing.
But on the optics at least, it could be
seen that the administration is taking
on Wall Street and taking on those who
are make supposedly making housing
unaffordable for for those looking for
single family homes. On energy, the
issue is the administration has to lean
into its ideas, how they're rebuilding
America's energy infrastructure and just
doing what they say, drill, baby drill,
and how that in the long run will pay
off for American voters.
>> George, when it comes to the
institutional buyers though, that's less
than 2% of the market. Could it actually
move things?
>> No, that's the reality. It's not going
to move things. And I think everyone who
follows housing understands that where
the issue is is more on supply side than
it is addressing institutional
investors. But the if you look at the
polling on institutional investors, many
I think close to 50% of Americans blame
institutional investors for higher costs
and it it creates a good picture for the
president of taking on some elements of
Wall Street, which going into a populist
midterm is probably a beneficial
political position to take.
>> What else could the White House do
without relying on Congress when it
comes to housing? We have seen them
direct the FHFA to buy more of mortgage
back securities. What other levers do
they have to pull?
I'm sure they could try to do something
in terms of cutting off certain tax
credit loopholes for institutional
investors. They could propose trying to
force Congress, again, I know you're
asking what they can do on their own,
but to do something with the excl uh
capital exclusion tax. So, right now, I
think that's at $500,000, put that up to
1 million, 2 million to try to convince
all their homeowners to sell out and
capture those tax benefits. But really
from the White House perspective, they
need to work with Congress to get
something on them because I think
they're kind of limited on their levers
within the White House itself.
>> George, when it comes to focus on
affordability out of the midterm
elections, we also, of course, had the
president for months talking about a
tariff dividend check. That conversation
has pretty much evaporated. Do you have
an update? And I'm thinking about it
today, especially as we may get Supreme
Court releasing the opinions on AIPA.
>> Look, I would not be surprised if the
president continues to push for it. But
the issue is he's also killed off the
idea of a second reconciliation bill
because he seems to implicitly
understand that the GOP does not have
the votes. So when we go to the State of
the Union next week, I imagine he's
going to call for Congress to pass some
kind of tariff rebate check. But he's
either going to have to say, "Congress,
if you don't, you have to do this or if
you don't, I'm going to try to find a
way for me for the administration to do
it on our own."
>> George, drill, baby drill. You mentioned
that phrase. We're drilling here in
America. We're producing almost 14
million barrels of crude every single
day. Crude though is rallying. Crude's
back up into the 70s on Brent. WTI
approaching those levels off the back of
a bigger bigger presence in the Middle
East and the threat of military action
on Iran. George, does the president want
to address the nation next week in the
state of the union with crude rallying
off the back of military action in Iran.
>> If you listen to those in the Malaga
universe like Steve Bannon or Kurt
Mills, they can't believe the president
is choosing to focus on foreign policy
going into the midterms. Their whole
thing is if you want to focus on foreign
policy, do it after the midterms. Right
now, you need to be focused on domestic
domestic concerns like affordability.
And they can't understand it. And they
think this president is so focused on
issues that he thinks make him look good
legacy-wise that he's forgetting that he
still has to deal with the political
consequences in November.
>> So, George, are you basically saying
he's losing the base at the moment? that
he is absolutely losing elements at the
base based off one the affordability
concerns and two he I mean in what 2016
it was a New York Times that that
Clinton the hawk tunnled the dove and
for a lot of people within the wider
MAGA universe they believe that and they
think these foreign policy entanglements
as much as they may build a opportunity
for long-term peace are not in the US's
long-term interest and the need the
focus needs to be on domestic issues
>> George appreciate your time as always
thanks for jumping on George Pollock
there of signum waging on the situation
in in the Middle East. What it could
mean for the State of the Union address
next week.
>> It could potentially mean the president
is going to be addressing the nation, as
you say, with gas prices going up
because oil prices are going higher
because he decided this weekend to
potentially take a strike on Iran. The
USS Gerald R. Ford will be in position
by Saturday. So that's the earliest we
could potentially see this president
take that strike. That is going to be
very challenging, especially since for a
lot of Americans, they're going to start
to remember 2003 and the invasion of
Iraq, and that does not have a very good
reputation on the minds of a lot of
Americans. What's the objective? Do we
know what the objective is?
>> Well, I think the objective according to
the Wall Street Journal of Initial
Strike is to get the Iranians actually
to the table and negotiate on but
there's three top issues. And to think
that Iran and this regime that they view
this as existential is going to
negotiate on all three, I think, is very
naive. It's not just nuclear, it's also
their intercontinental ballistic
missiles as well. It's the money to
proxies. Does anyone actually think
Tyrron is not going to be giving money
to these proxies in the region when this
regime views this as existential? I
don't think so. And the other big
question is what is the next day happen?
Even if the regime was to actually be
obliterated, what is day two? There's no
defections right now and there's no real
opposition on the ground.
>> Crude oil big move this week up by more
than 6% in just two sessions this
morning. Pulling back just a little bit.
We're down by a tenth of 1% to 7156.
with an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Let's
cross over to Yahara for more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump says
his Board of Peace has received roughly
17 billion dollars in pledges toward
humanitarian and restruction efforts in
Gaza. The president also says more than
half a dozen countries have promised
personnel for a stabilization force in
the war torn territory.
Former Prince Andrew has been released
under investigation after being arrested
on suspicion of misconduct in public
office. The arrest coming after new
details emerged about his relationship
with convicted sex offender the late
Jeffrey Epstein. The brother of King
Charles has consistently denied any
wrongdoing.
And Minneapolis Fed President Kashkari
taking aim at NEC director Kevin Hasset,
accusing him of trying to undermine Fed
independence. It follows Hasset
criticizing a New York Fed economist
study which found US companies bear most
of the burden from President Trump's
tariff hikes. Kashkari defending the
study. Dr. Bloomberg brief John.
>> Yeah. Harry, thank you. This was a
mistake for more reasons than one. But I
think the ultimate reason for me is this
is a blog that hardly anyone read
>> and now everyone's reading it.
>> Well, now everyone's reading it. You got
to make the blog great again. You come
out, you know, throw some swings at it,
put some darts on it.
>> And the headline now is that economists
who believe that the Americans have to
bear the brunt of tariffs should be
disciplined.
>> Yeah, that well that is a that is what
that is what the that's what everyone's
reading now.
>> Yes, that's everyone reading. Yeah. And
also now people are actually reading the
report and that report said that
Americans are 90% of those tariffs
they're bearing u the cost of that and
potentially those tariffs might be named
illegal at 10:00 a.m. today. Wait and
see.
>> A communication misstep perhaps from the
White House. Up next on the program,
dialing back the doubish till
we don't adjust policy down then I think
that we do run risks of rising recess of
rising recessions. The need for me to
descent for 50 becomes a little bit less
as we come down.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with John Hill of Barclays. He joins us
next live from New York City. You're
watching Blimbe TV.
Stocks are going nowhere this morning.
Just about unchanged on the S&P 500.
Similar story on the NASDAQ on the S&P
still within 2% of alltime highs around
those kind of levels at the moment. This
came from bespoke. Fantastic stat from
them. The S&P has seen its tightest
trading range to start a year since
1966.
The difference between the S&P's high
and low closed this year has been just
2.67%
at the time of writing at some point
yesterday. That's amazing. For all the
pain, all the massive rotations, we're
around 2% away from alltime highs. And
the trading range has been incredibly
tight for 2026 so far. Just ridiculous.
The noise elsewhere and the calm at the
index level. Let's turn to some of the
noise. An important story blew out in
the pre-market shaping up as follows.
Trading softer yesterday, down again
this morning by 4.5%. So here's the
latest. They found four buyers for a
portfolio of loans to help pay out
investors. Three of North America's
biggest pension funds and its own
insurance firm. And there's two
different ways to talk about this. one,
there are some really deep pools of
capital that will step in and
everything's going to be okay. This can
be contained. That speaks to the three
biggest pension funds in this country
for North America. Or there's a debt
chair story and you had to turn to your
own insurance company to try and get
some funds.
>> And you have to think, is this the first
of potentially more cockroaches to come
to pass? This is what Jamie Diamond
talked about in October. This is what
Senator Elizabeth Warren is talking
about on Twitter, saying the
administration needs to be careful in
terms of she thinks that they're
encouraging Americans to put more in
their 401ks and retail investors invest
more in private equity right now. Is
this going to really hurt investor
confidence in this space?
>> Blue down by more than 4% in the
pre-market. We'll keep track of that
story throughout this morning. under
Sylvanas this morning dialing back the
doubish tail.
>> If we don't adjust policy down then I
think that we do run risks of rising
recess of rising recessions. So I think
it's important that we keep on adjusting
our policy rate down but at the moment
it's not my base case in part because I
think that we ultimately will end up
adjust continuing to adjust interest
rates down. The need for me to descent
for 50 becomes a little bit less as we
come down.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
Fed Governor Steven Marin moderating his
stance on policy after recent labor
market and inflation data. The next read
on inflation due in just under two hours
time. Joining us now is John Hill, the
head of US inflation market strategy at
Barclays. John, welcome to the program.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> Before we get into the data a little bit
later this morning at 8:30 Eastern time,
I want to lean on your most recent
reporting inflation surprises. What are
you tracking at the moment that enables
all of us to do that? So the observation
I was trying to make is say going into
the CPI last Friday we were getting a
ton of questions from clients about
diverging signals in the alternative
data. So specifically like the Adobe
digital price index super strong upside
risk right something like trueflation
very very weak downside risk we saw a
disappointing result and I think the
observation to make is that you're not
really forecasting the future with these
prints you're trying to figure out what
happened last month and as we get more
and more better highfrequency data we're
not really going to be able to now cast
it's more like the past is going to be
increasingly certain and it's especially
going to be increasing ly certain for
things in the inflation data that use
say digital prices that's easy to scrape
online that's easy to aggregate and you
can be like oh we kind of know what it
was in January already like a great
example of this there's a widely
followed feed on Bloomberg uh daily
retail gas prices you take the month
average of that do the month-over-month
change you can pretty much know what
motor fuels is going to do in CPI and
kind of my observation and hypothesis
going forward is that's going to be more
and more and more of the category and
it's especially relevant for today. We
have core PCE coming up in two hours or
so.
>> Yeah.
>> Um we already know the vast majority of
inputs to PCE because it comes from CPI
and it comes from PPI and we know that
data. So while it's new data, it's also
kind of realized at the subcomponent
level. And so for example, when we map
all the individual components, we
actually think core PC is coming at a
like decent 0.4% 4% above what is listed
as the Bloomberg consensus.
>> Does it make it less of a market event
as more and more poor people basically
figure this out or is there some
forward-looking components in this data
that is worth paying attention to?
>> Yeah, there absolutely will be
forward-looking components and that's
because the way that these indices are
built, not all of it is just scraped
online, right? Some of it's modeled. A
lot of people focus on OEER as a thing.
Um, but the the observation also is
that, you know, the market's just going
to repric earlier and earlier. So, it's
not that the market moved to PCE at 8:30
today. It's that once everybody
refreshed their sheets after CPI and PPI
were in, it was like, oh wow, core PC is
going to come in at 0.4. Legal services
distorts this higher. The big drop we
got in used cars that mattered for core
CPI matters a lot less for core PCE. So
it's it's kind of like rotating where
that repricing is. And in in the modern
world, you know, you can put look at
digital prices, you can look at
generative AI, pick your favorite tech
topic. The world's getting faster, the
world's getting earlier, and the
market's going to repric as such.
>> Do you think Fed policy gets noisier or
quieter?
>> Um, you know, I think Fed policy just
needs to be more data dependent. You can
even see if you listen closely, Powell
has picked up on this. there have been a
couple times where core PC hasn't
actually been released and he'll say
indicators suggest they're doing this at
the Fed as well and and to be fair you
know everybody kind of should if you
care about this this these detailed
component kind of things and as a result
I think it also makes the market more
sensitive to some of these alternative
data feeds um so it's no longer going to
be sufficient just to look at CPI for
what's happening now to be sure there
are issues with revisions and reweadings
and different scopes and all that but
like the world's broadening out and it's
speeding up.
>> What do you most focus on in the
alternative data space?
>> We try to look we try to be agnostic,
you know, like you know, I I focus
heavily on US fixed income and so the
like cash flows on those products. It
really only matters what CPI says. So
what we focus on is in the alternative
data what actually correlate well with
different parts of CPI. You know, there
are certain used vehicles that pay close
attention. as an example, there are food
tracking prices. And I think not only
over time is that this kind of the lower
bound of where we're at, I think it's
going to get better, faster, and more
widely consumed.
>> You mentioned the Bloomberg and uh
Bloomberg basically tracking the motor
fuel. I track AAA almost every single
day to see where the gas prices are
across America, especially when the
president says we're going under $2 a
gallon. How important is the oil story
right now in terms of those alternative
data spaces given the potential conflict
we might have in the region, the spike
we've seen in crude prices?
>> It's absolutely essential and you know
it's one thing where you can look at
futures prices. We already have good
visibility on that but like you know
consumers buy gallons of gas not barrels
of oil. So it's better to try to track
the residential true cost and this could
be meaningful like if if oil prices
continue higher or really really spike
this could be meaningful for headline
CPI right like first order back of the
envelope every 10% move in WTI is worth
about call it 15 basis points in
headline and it gets larger the more
nonlinear you get so it's one thing to
go from 60 to 66 it's another thing to
go to 100 right the the second order
consequences get much much larger. I
think it's one of the biggest macro
stories out there right now, but you
know, I wouldn't say I'm a geopolitical
expert trying to navigate this.
>> Sure. But we can talk about sort of the
different kind of scenarios here. A lot
of people were asking me earlier on this
morning before we came on if this is
different to where we are coming out of
the pandemic where we saw the spike
particularly when Russia invaded
Ukraine. Is the economy in a different
place and the kind of impact it would
have on the US economy has changed? How
are you thinking about the different
moments? So one thing that was more
inflationary postco if you think about
you know take a take a big step back um
we had a sudden rapid surge in labor
demand in the economy we didn't have
enough labor supply to keep up with that
and then in recent years you had a lot
of immigration that increased supply
demand 101 that's downward pressure in
prices now we're at a moment where we've
seen a reduction in immigration we have
an aging domestic labor force and so
supply demand is much more imbalance or
closer to balance and then if you
introduce this price shock it could feed
through very differently.
>> So we're vulnerable to price shock still
inflation shocks.
>> Absolutely. And part of the other you
know inflation wonks like to talk about
expectations, right?
>> Sure.
>> We've gone through however many months
now of above target expectations. If you
have yet another shock, you know, you
could imagine those expectations being
uh more susceptible to being reset
higher.
>> John, this was smart. It's good to see
you. Thanks for sharing your report with
us as well. John Hill there of Barclays
on inflation data, how to track things
and what to look ahead to at 8:30
Eastern time. Coming up on the program
in the next hour, we'll catch up with
Greg Battle of BMP Parabar, the former
White House trade official Kate
Kucawitz, Alicia Reese of Wed Bush, and
Colin Martin of Charles Schwab. If
you're just joining us, welcome to the
program. Equities rolling over just a
touch. We're down by a tenth of 1% on
the S&P. The bond market quite well
behaved. Yields up by a single basis
point at the front end of the curve 347.
But all eyes at the moment on the Middle
East and what's happening with crude.
Big rally over the previous two days. A
bit softer this morning. Lower by half
of 1%. Crude on Bren 7132.
I'm a little bit skeptical of the
sentiment data here.
>> It's very difficult to get a a clear
read like on anything.
>> The data so far don't justify having
lower advance rates. There is a an
intellectual basis for a cut
>> in a healthier productivity environment,
stronger potential GDP. You don't need
uh lower rates. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg survey
your scores look like this. Equities
just a little bit softer. We're down by
a tenth of 1% on the S&P. Likewise on
the NASDAQ. In the bond market, yields a
little bit higher at the front end of
the curve, up by single basis point.2s
at 346. Coming into this at 8:30 Eastern
time, tons of data, a read on GDP, PCE,
and later on a read on Mitch consumer
sentiment. All worthwhile. What could
change you Mitch? This move in crude, a
6% plus rally in the previous two days.
Bit lower this morning, down by 6% at
71.25, but that's the main event at the
moment. All eyes on Iran and what
happens next.
>> Absolutely. Wall Street Journal is
talking about potentially the president
is weighing an initial limited military
strike on Tyrron to try to get them to
control them to go to the table to
really go after these three red lines he
pointed out in terms of ballistic
missiles, nuclear deal and money to
proxies. The issue of course for
financial markets is if we see a huge
spike in crude, what does that actually
mean for the real economy? as this
administration is focused on
affordability
>> and seen just picture the State of the
Union next week, the president
addressing Congress and Supreme Court
justices as well
>> at a time when maybe and I stress maybe
they might be striking down his
signature economic policy later on this
morning. Plus, you add in a massive move
in crude because you've just decided to
initiate strikes against Iran. Is that
the position, the seat you want to sit
in next week? Well, definitely that
speech is not written yet because they
potentially are going to have to edit it
depending on events that come at at
10:00 a.m. when the Supreme Court has an
opinion day. Now, we've been here
before. I always am refreshing the
Scotas's blog on opinion day for the
past two months at 10:00 a.m. We have
not gotten them yet on AIA, but today
potentially they will decide on AIA. And
then this weekend, everyone is talking
about there is reporting in the
Telegraph that as soon as this weekend
is when the president could decide to
make that initial strike decision
because the USS Gerald R. Ford will be
in position. There's a tremendous amount
of military hardware right now in the
Middle East, which is why you see prices
in crude going up.
>> Crude north of 70, north of 71 on Brent.
Lots to track this morning, including
this move in the pre-market from Blue.
Blueout down again after sliding
yesterday and taking the likes of Apollo
and Blackstone with them. Blueout down
this morning by more than 5%. The latest
from that firm is that they found four
buyers for a portfolio of loans to help
pay out investors. Of those four buyers,
three were North America's biggest
pension funds and one was its own
insurance firm. Now, there are two
different ways, as we've stressed
throughout this morning, to look at
this. One is that there are deep pools
of capital available to step in. The
other is that you have to turn to your
own insurance firm to move the deck
chairs and you'll make your own judgment
on where we are.
>> So, they have the $1.4 billion to
liquidate in these assets. But, as you
point out, it's basically how are you
thinking about what they are doing? And
what does it actually signal and mean?
This is what the Blue Owl CEO had to
say. Quote, "We're not halting
redemptions. We're simply changing the
method by which we're providing
redemptions. It's getting difficult to
put a floor under that story at the
moment. It seems to regain confidence.
That stock is sliding once again, and
we'll stay on top of it right here on
Bloomberg TV. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Greg Battle of Bmp Parabar
with stocks edging lower. Former White
House trade official Kate Kukitz with a
potential Scottus tariff ruling on deck
and Alicia Ree of Wedbush saying Netflix
is the superior option to win the Warner
Brothers streaming battle. We begin this
out with markets looking to regain a
firmer footing. Greg Battle of BMP
writing, "We're cautiously bullish. We
acknowledge that a hint of caution is
warranted, but a move higher up through
7,000 we think is a rally people might
have to chase." Greg joins us now for
more. Greg, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Have you ever seen such a stressful 2%
decline from alltime highs on the S&P?
It is such a peculiar market. It's not
just the the narrowness of the decline.
It's the range. You alluded to it
earlier on the show. The range that we
have traded on index level so tight. But
under the surface, there are plenty of
things that have got people worried.
>> It begs the question, have we really
seen the worst of it at the index level?
>> Well, I I think something really has to
change. Like there are signs of stress
in the equity market. You can look at
the VIX. The VIX troughed at 14 at the
back end of last year. It's now up above
20. People are clearly worried. Either
we need to see some kind of
normalization in volatility or something
happen in the equity market.
>> Well, let's get into the worries. What
are the worries? What are the
hierarchies? The hierarchy of worries
right now.
>> So, I think the biggest one this year
has been the declines in software and
people worried about the kind of
existential threats to that business
which has driven this massive rotation
under the surface in equities.
Geopolitics obviously you've been
talking about crude Iran all morning
that remains something bubbling away in
the background. But really, I think it's
the rotation in software that has been
the real pain trade for people. Is it
the equity story in software or the
ripple and the rupture it could generate
in private markets? What's of more
concern at the moment?
>> I I think the two things are very
interlin. Um obviously people are
focusing a little bit more on private
credit with the news flow this morning,
but I think it's really uh predominantly
an equity story. The extent of the
rotation and the split between semis and
software, it's very unhealthy.
>> So why are you still cautiously bullish?
>> Well, there's many many things to be
worried about.
But everyone is worried about them.
That's why the VIX is up at 20. When you
look at the parameters of the option
complex, what you can see is skew. The
downside versus upside, the relative
cost of that at 2-year highs. When we
look at our positioning metrics, we see
things like systematics like CTAs and V
targets all having delevered. Flows have
looked uh much less pro- risk at the
start of this year. So there are lots of
things to be worried about, but people
are worried about them,
>> right? So the fact that they're worried
doesn't give you as much a cause of
concern because you know how to deal
with them. Jonathan mentioned what was
going on with Blue Owl and private
equity and you said this is kind of
interlin what's going on in the equity
market. So are you concerned that there
are more cockroaches to come out of the
wall?
>> There's definitely concerns about this
and we see the extent of the price
action some of the declines in equities.
It's clearly unhealthy. So we're
concerned about these things but we do
have to think about bigger picture. How
does the world look for the equity
market? Well, we're expecting double
digit earnings growth. Analysts are uh
revising forecast higher rather than
lower. Nominal GDP is very high and the
Fed is engaged in a cutting cycle. How
much more they will cut or if they will
cut is up for for debate. But when we
look at those things relative to
history, that tends to point to pretty
good outcomes.
>> Just beg the question again though why
it's not working. So I'm going to keep
going back to hot nominal GDP right
there with you understand it. The
Federal Reserve is contributing to that
I'm sure. And on top of that massive
tech capex conclusion should be chase
the beneficiaries. Nvidia it's done
nothing all year
>> make sense of that.
>> So I think it's it's quite hard to make
sense of it. So part of it is working
it. When you think of the market I split
it into two halves. That more uh
cyclical part that is correlated to the
macro and the hot GDP and the secular
story. The cyclical start part has
worked this year. You can look at the
performance of something like the
Russell the small and midcaps equal
weight S&P the industrials. They've all
been working this year. tech has been
the lagard. Now what we've seen is you
know software really capitulate and that
has taken the kind of wind out the sales
of all of tech really at least at least
in the large caps. Now when we look
forward we have some pretty significant
catalysts in terms of Nvidia earnings,
Broadcom earnings, Nvidia GTC. So I
think these events are going to be
really key for obviously tech and
therefore the broader market.
>> Is it an either or at the moment
cyclical or secular or do you want
fingers in both parties? No, that's not
my view. My view is that you can barbell
exposure and you can go to both of those
extremes. So you can pick some of the
secular winners within the AI tech story
and I think you can go down the other
end of the barbell expure which is the
small and midcaps things like Russell
which are exposed to that running it hot
theme and have a little bit of exposure
to both.
>> From a sector perspective within the
cyclical bucket where do you want to be
and what you want to avoid?
>> I think that the capex story has been a
very strong one. You spoke about that uh
just now. We've seen some of these huge
capex numbers which are a double-edged
sword because obviously people have to
pay for those but some of the capex
beneficiaries we have an industrials
basket that's tilted towards the capex
beneficiaries that's done very well at
the start of this year I think it's that
part of the market that continues um on
the cyclical side to perform well
>> notable that you didn't talk about
financials yes
>> or the banks why not
>> yeah so the banks is a is a challenging
sector when you look at it it's quite
bifurcated some of the large banks have
been trading on pretty high multiples
for a while and we've seen the value
sector the the the value factor
performed well at the start of this
year. So valuations are compressing,
higher valued stocks struggling. Then as
you go further down the market cap
spectrum, you are exposed to more risks.
And if you are worried about things like
private credit, it's not an obvious
place to hide.
>> But at the same time, this is an
administration that's taking
deregulation, especially when it comes
to the financials, very seriously. Does
that not get you excited?
>> Uh, it doesn't necessarily get me
excited. I think it's also a course of
uncertainty. What is actually going to
happen with the financials?
What policies are we going to see
heading into midterms to help housing or
the consumer or affordability? It's very
unclear. So, I think it's um it's
something that could be a benefit to
those parts of the market. There's a lot
of uncertainty.
>> As you are cautiously bullish, are you
looking at policies in Washington and
potentially this administration wanting
to keep it run it hot and loose in terms
of where you want to place money?
>> I think there's a huge amount of
uncertainty around politics and where
policy is going. So I think it's
probably better to think about, you
know, which parts of the economy do we
think are running hot and
apply exposure proportionally to that
rather than try and chase policy.
>> Can we finish with some scenario
analysis?
>> Yeah.
>> Not your base case, I'm sure, but I just
want to play around with the story a
little bit.
>> What would happen to your calls if crude
did go to 80, north of 80 off the back
of a military confrontation in the
Middle East? Would that change much for
you?
>> Yeah, I think in the short term that'd
be pretty painful for markets. the
cyclical parts of the economy that have
benefited from this running it hot
narrative are not going to like a
massive spike in crude. So I think that
could temporarily drive a riskoff move.
I think one of the things we've seen
whether it's policy or geopolitics is
that you have to be very careful
thinking the first move is going to
last. We've been in an environment where
things have reverted very very quickly.
So if you get a spike in crude and that
hurts equity markets, do you think that
is going to be sustained or is that
going to be an opportunity to buy the
dip? My personal view is I think it's an
opportunity to buy the dip. Greg, it's
good to see you. Thanks for dropping by.
Thank you. Greg Battle there of BMP
Paraban not getting that spike this
morning on crude. You have seen over the
previous two days. WTI 66. Brent at 71
this morning pulling back by about a
third of 1%. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross back over
to Yahara for more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. We're seeing shares of Blue Owl
falling 4.6% in the premarket. Here's
the latest. The private credit giants
selling a $ 1.4 $4 billion portfolio of
loans to help return cash to investors.
Blue Owl finding four buyers, including
three of North America's biggest pension
funds and its own insurance firm. That's
according to people familiar. This
coming after it said yesterday it would
begin limiting withdrawals to clients in
one of its retail focused funds. The
hits keep coming. Meanwhile, ECB
presidents Christine Lagarde saying her
quote base case is to finish out her
term in a Wall Street Journal interview.
this after reports saying the central
bank president would leave her post
before the end of her term to allow
French President Emanuel Mcronone to
play a role in replacing her ahead of
elections. And oil is trading near a
six-month high on concerns the US is
moving closer to war with Iran. The US
is continuing its military buildup in
the Middle East as President Trump says
Iran has days to agree to a deal over
its nuclear program. The US now has more
forces in the Middle East than any point
since the Iraq war. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yihara later this hour. This
from Peter Cheer of Academy. Of course,
that firm filled with military
experience and generals. While a
diplomatic solution is the goal, it
appears increasingly unlikely as the two
sides are too far apart.
>> Because I think a lot of people realize
that on term in terms of what the United
States wants to see out of Iran, this
regime is not ready to play ball on all
three of those issues. And when you have
this type of military hardware in the
region, what do you think the next step
is going to be?
>> Big big issue, major issue going into
the weekend. Up next on the program,
here's another one. Bracing for a
ruling.
>> You have the Supreme Court now going to
rule on whether or not we can use
tariffs. Can you believe this?
>> We have a big decision. Hopefully, we're
going to get the right decision.
>> And to think I have to be in the United
States Supreme Court for many, many
months waiting for a decision on
tariffs.
>> That's up next. The former White House
trade adviser Kate Kukitz joins us for
more live from New York City this
morning. Good morning
equities this morning just slightly
negative going into this 8:30 Eastern
time core PC. Another read on the US
economy later. You consumer confidence
heading into the weekend. That drops at
10 a.m. Eastern time and setting the
tone for the president's state of the
union next week. Potentially a ruling on
his signature economic policy. The
Supreme Court opinions dropping a little
bit later this morning. They're very
much in focus.
>> And those justices go to the State of
the Union. So you can envision a
scenario. The president is giving a
speech. We know he likes to go off
prompt and off script. and he's going to
call them out saying, "Why did you
decide that my tariffs potentially were
illegal?" We might get some clarity on
that.
>> How many people have said to us though
on this program that yes, that is the
consensus view? That's the base case.
That will be the ruling, but ultimately
it won't change anything.
>> Well, it won't change anything because
even if they can't use AIPA to enact
their tariff policy, there are other
avenues this administration can use via
USR and via the Commerce Department to
get that tariff rate per countries they
want. Also potentially we can get a
split decision. Supreme Court could say
look the fentinol tariffs that is an
emergency action but the reciprocal
tariffs are not. And also you've made
this point are they just too big to
fail? Yeah.
>> And potentially the Supreme Court says
look we're going to let them stay until
you come back with a legal justification
for them. Lots of different scenarios.
>> So we've been here before a few times
already this year. I stress potentially
getting a ruling later on this morning.
Under surveillance this morning bracing
for that ruling.
You have the Supreme Court now going to
rule on whether or not we can use
tariffs. Can you believe this? We
getting rich because of tariffs. By the
way, we have a very, very big case in
the Supreme Court. If we don't win that
case, uh, our country is going to suffer
so greatly.
>> I don't know what the Supreme Court's
going to do.
>> We have a big decision. Hopefully, we're
going to get the right decision.
>> And to think I have to be in the United
States Supreme Court for many, many
months waiting for a decision on
tariffs.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Trump's trade agenda hanging
in the balance. A possible Supreme Court
decision could be coming later on this
morning. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall has
now has more for us now this morning.
Tyler, welcome to the program. Is today
the day? Well, John, at this point,
there's no way of knowing, though. Some
court watchers have pointed to the fact
that the justices did decide to hear
this case on an unusually aggressive
schedule, which could suggest that they
may want to get an opinion out sooner
rather than later. Because, of course,
we know there is just so much at stake
here, including the ongoing trade
negotiations that the US is trying to
pursue. Look at how in the last 24 hours
we just saw this trade deal inked with
Indonesia and we're getting some
headlines that potentially there could
be a deal on the table when it comes to
India. Their trade minister saying that
we could see an agreement signed as soon
as next month. But it's definitely been
looming over all of these trade
negotiations and agreements and
potentially even setting up a
complicated legal fight. If the court
does rule against the Trump
administration, they could potentially
be on the hook for some tariff revenue
refunds. And we know that so far the
government has taken in about $133
billion worth of revenue from the IEPa
tariffs alone. We have to keep in mind
there are those two questions before the
Supreme Court today. One, does President
Trump have the authority to invoke AIPA
to impose tariffs? And the second is
what Ann Marie was just talking about
there. If he does have that authority to
invoke AIPA, did he do so correctly? Did
those national emergencies that he
declared meet that legal standard
required under the law? Of course, those
two uh instances were fentanyl and then
those persistent trade imbalances. But
John, you're right. We keep hearing this
over and over again that the Trump
administration has these other federal
authorities, those other tools in their
toolkit. We're expecting them to likely
double down on those section 232
investigations and tariffs related to
national security concerns if this goes
against them.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Appreciate the update. Tyler
Kendall there here in New York for the
next 24 hours or so. The president
hasn't helped the agenda with recent
comments over the past few days when he
suggested that he ramped up tariffs on
the Swiss because he didn't like the
attitude of the person who called him.
>> Yes, he did. He he him and the then
Swiss president now it's a difference
it's g paral. But then the former p
Swiss president Karen Sucha they did not
have a very good phone call. It got very
acrimonious I've been told on that call.
And the president actually told people
like this is why I decided I'm going to
hold off on the deal for a bit. much too
really uh it was very difficult for the
Swiss in terms of the waiting period for
that. Yeah, I'm not sure that helped
him.
>> Killwitz with this to say the former
White House trade official writing in a
loss scenario, President Trump's focus
will likely shift to generating wins in
existing agreements through stakeholder
engagement and sector specific
investigations. Kate joins us now for
more. Kate, welcome to the show. We've
been through this issue so many times
because we've been waiting for this
ruling. It's interesting just how many
people expect the same ruling but don't
think it will change anything. What kind
of president would it set for how we put
together and form trade policy in the
nation's capital?
>> We well we are in a time I think that
that has no precedent. We are setting
precedent right now and that as you
described it comes down to one man and
and maybe sometimes whether he likes the
person across the table from him. So you
know I'm not sure this is presidential
at all. But I I do agree with an I do
agree with others who have said loss or
not. This president is clear about his
intentions and I think he is going to
achieve them one way or another. You
know, the irony of course is that if the
Supreme Court throws out the AIPA
tariffs or in some way changes the
president's ability to use them, you
know, this is just going to introduce a
whole new range of chaos into the the
trading market. And for companies trying
to figure out what to do, we'll have a
range of new tariffs they have to deal
with.
>> Kate, what do you think is the base case
today at 10 a.m.? What do you think if
if the Supreme Court decide to take up
the ruling on AIPA today, what do you
expect them to say?
>> That's the million-dollar question and I
think we don't exactly know. As you were
saying, there are range of outcomes
here. Uh the president has used this
authority to implement tariffs in a
range of different ways. Uh in some
cases, he's very clearly articulated
what he believes to be an emergency,
whether it's the drug crisis in Mexico,
uh or problems in China. Uh but you know
he also used this authority to say we
have trade deficits. That's the
emergency. So I suspect the Supreme
Court is thinking about all of these
different actions and and I guess
potentially could make you know a split
decision that some are okay and some
need to be be removed.
>> Whether it's Jameson Greer or Peter
Navaro or Howard Lutnik, this
administration has made it very clear
there is a plan B. What do you think the
plan B will be if AIPA is struck down?
>> Well, a they they have all made
basically the same point is the Congress
has given the president authority over
many years to to mess around with
tariffs if we want to put it that way
bluntly. Um AIPA is one way of course
but but we see these other actions. 232
of course is the one that the president
has used on sectors. We've seen it in
steel, aluminum, cars, a range of others
under investigation. uh he has the 301
authority which is the baseline for the
China tariffs. Um even beyond that there
are other authorities that he hasn't
touched yet. So I suspect plan B is a
range of these different policy actions
and I suspect frankly we've had months
now to draw these up. They will move
quickly and decisively if the Supreme
Court strikes down some of these IPA
tariffs. What's the message going to be
to US partners and some of these other
trading partners that came to an
agreement with the administration? Are
they going to want to formally enter new
talks?
This is probably the biggest question
for me because you know credit where
it's due the administration has
negotiated nearly 20 agreements. I think
really securing wins for US companies in
key markets like you know India,
Indonesia we heard yesterday uh
Argentina, Europe, Japan, Korea these
are significant wins for US companies
but you know absent the AIBA threat on
the other side it is hard to imagine
that all of these trading partners will
remain committed to the deals that they
struck with the Trump administration. Uh
but let's remember as well these other
tariffs, the 232 tariffs on autos and
steel and aluminum and pharmaceuticals
and semiconductors. They are components
of several of these trade agreements,
notably with Japan and Korea and Taiwan
and Europe. So I suspect those trading
partners, those governments are are
going to commit and stay in those
arrangements.
>> Kate, we've been talking to you about
trade now for a number of years. I was
surprised, many others were too, about
the posture the United States
established with a country like Canada
and the unintended consequence of that
pursuit. We saw it in the trade data
yesterday. Exports to Canada are just
plunging, dropping off a cliff. The
Canadians are just not engaging with the
US economy in the same way. And we see
that in the travel data from Canada into
the United States. Kate, what's the
approach going to be later this year
when the Canadian prime minister is
looking the other way and starting to
turn to China?
Well, I think that the Canadian prime
minister is is trying very hard to show
that he has other options on the table,
but the reality is the Canadian economy
is intertwined with the United States.
75% of their exports at least come to
the US and it will take time to
diversify. So, I suspect there is a a
challenge for for Canada. They have to
weigh the the political and economic
consequences of engaging with the United
States. You know, you you started this
off by describing the president's
approach to the Swiss president. I mean,
I think this is personal with Canada.
Uh, and you know, we we have some
momentous things coming forward, not not
least of all, uh, whether we renew or
stay in the US, Mexico, Canada
agreement. The president and his team in
the last couple of days have publicly
been saying, you know, Mexico is doing
great. Canada not so much. They continue
to show uh that they're prepared to move
on without Canada. But I think you know
again the Canadians are going to think
about what is in their best economic
interest and I I think it it is to
remain with the United States.
>> Kate, appreciate the update. Thank you.
Kate Kugowitz there, the former White
House trade official. Also got to
confront the consequences of engaging
with a country like China and the risks
associated with a move like that for the
prime minister
>> and also what does it mean for this
country? Do you see what Ford is
potentially doing? according to
Bloomberg went to a US official and said
we might do a joint venture with Xiaomi
and make those cars in the United
States. So is it very crystal clear what
this administration's posture is towards
Beijing? Not
>> the economy in Canada will take a hit.
If you're running GDP really hot in
America and you're not getting a slice
of that up in Canada, you're going to
feel that. You're going to feel that for
sure. Coming up on the program, Alicia
Ree of Wed Bush saying Netflix's offer
is superior to Paramounts in the bidding
war for Warner Brothers.
We're just about positive on the week so
far this morning. We're down a little
more than a tenth of 1% on the S&P. On
the NASDAQ 100, down by 0.2
underperformance on the Russell. We're
down by a third in the bond market. At
the front end of the curve is where the
action has been. Yields drifting higher
through the week, encouraged by some
hawish Fed speak. and a move in crude
that we need to talk about 34634 on
Tuesday this morning. This is the move
in crude. On the session, we're lower on
the week. We're higher by 5%. Much that
move over the previous two days. On the
year, year to date up by 17% on Bren
taking us back through 71. 7134 is where
we trade this morning.
>> Geopolitical risk premium. You see it
bleeding out into prices this morning.
Higher crude prices. And this is of
course as the United States is amassing
massive military hardware in the region.
and you have reports the president is
weighing his options in terms of he does
not get a deal as he talked about 10 to
15 days is the timeline then there will
be consequences and the Wall Street
Journal is talking about potentially an
initial strike to cajol the Iranians to
the negotiating table
>> will we see some action imminently over
the weekend going into the state of the
union next week we'll see crude softer
so far this morning but much higher on
the year so far as we count you down to
the opening bow two hours to go let's
get you some movers some single names
Danny has more Danny Hey John, the
sell-off in Blue Owl continues at pace
this morning, already closing yesterday
at its lowest since August of 2023.
At issue is whether there's a liquidity
mismatch when you sell private credit in
a rapper to retail investors. They were
facing a redemption about $ 1.4 billion
worth of loans. They had tried to fix
that by merging two funds. That didn't
go together. So instead, they sold off
this loan book. and Blue Apple would
point to the fact that those loans were
sold close to par saying that it proves
that there is liquidity. The market
having a different thought on that
though of course there was also one of a
familiar buyer for some of those loans
too among others included Blue Owl's own
insurance fund. So those again uh shares
falling 4.4% also about 18% short
interest on that fund. Pneumont earnings
there some disappointment that they're
going to be producing less gold than
they have in prior years. That's because
uh of some upgrades to some of their
mines. but also less output coming from
a joint venture with Beric Mining.
Though shares down 3.8%. Uh and finally,
a little bit of a smaller company, but
this is a cancer screening development
company called Grail. Shares sinking,
plummeting 47%,
they had a UK study on one of their
early cancer detections and it was not
statistically significant. So, the
disappointment in that study leading to
a sell-off. John,
>> Danny, thank you. Thanks for the update.
We'll catch up with Danny again in the
next hour. So, on our radar this
morning, shares of Blue falling, the
company selling a 1.4 $4 billion
portfolio of loans to help return cash
to investors. Blew out, finding four
buyers, including three of North
America's biggest pension funds and its
own insurance firm. Elsewhere, Nvidia
nearing a $30 billion investment in
OpenAI. The Financial Times reporting
the deal replaces a previous 100 billion
agreement from last year. This coming as
part of the latest funding round for the
AI startup. And finally, crude oil
trading near six-month highs as fears of
a US attack on Iran are growing.
President Donald Trump saying that Iran
has 10 to 15 days to reach a nuclear
deal. The US is continuing to build its
military presence in the Middle East.
>> The last time the president said there
was about two weeks that Iran had to
come to the negotiating table. Within
days, we saw him send over B2 bombers
and went after the Iranian enrichment
sites. So 10 to 15 days also potentially
be the president having a distraction
right now when it comes to the regime.
Interesting. the foreign minister
speaking to American reporters saying
that the the Iranian government hasn't
offered any suspension and the US hasn't
asked for zero uranium enrichment. But
what this administration definitely
wants is tighter limits when it comes to
enrichment. Plus, there's two other red
lines, ballistic missiles and the entire
support that this regime gives to the
proxies in the region.
>> What negotiations are actually taking
place right now? The negotiations right
now is the ones we saw in Geneva with
Jared Kushner and Steve Wickoff with the
Iranian regime and then they said they
were going to go back to their capitals,
recoup, and then two weeks later have
more negotiations. But many individuals
I talked to say for Iran this is them
just dragging their feet and this is
timing negotiation. Basically, they just
are trying to drag this out for as long
as possible to keep the president at
bay.
>> 6% move in the last two days on crude
this morning. That rally stalls 7134 on
Brent at the moment. Let's move on.
Let's turn to Netflix. The company's
co-CEO Ted Sarendas countering a key
complaint in the high stakes battle for
Warner Brothers.
>> We're going to keep Warner Brothers
running pretty much like they are today.
And in fact, it's even quite better for
theaters because now that we're going to
be in that business and own a theatrical
distribution entity, we're going to take
some of the uh Netflix films and put
them through that as well. So, it's very
likely that you'll have uh even more
outcome of highquality films for the
theaters if this deal goes through.
>> His comments coming as the Justice
Department assesses the deal's impact on
theaters. Alicia Reef of Wetbush
Securities writing, "We believe that
Netflix can create jobs, boost
production, and offer consumers more
value at a reasonable price. The Netflix
deal is superior to Paramount Sky Dots."
Alicia joins us now for more. Alicia,
welcome. This drags on. Is it becoming a
distraction for the stock?
It is a distraction for the stock.
Absolutely. The the issue is that
Netflix is um perfectly well balanced as
a company without um the acquisition. It
has significant growth opportunities,
particularly in advertising. Now, this
certainly would help if they got the
deal through for long-term growth,
especially if they're able to, you know,
leverage their new advertising vehicle
throughout um Warner Brothers as well
and drive that um global growth. But
they don't need it. Um and it's
certainly been a distraction and uh has
weighed heavily on the stock. Um but
ultimately, you know, we do think um you
know, it Netflix will be okay without
this deal and the regulatory headwinds
are, you know, significant.
>> Well, Alicia, let's talk about why you
believe they'll be okay and you alluded
to it. Do you think we're underpricing
how they're positioned to take advantage
of a big rebound in global ad growth?
>> Oh, absolutely. Yeah. you know, and I I
think without the deal, the shares would
have been okay. You know, they did have
a bit of a hiccup a couple quarters ago
um with the reporting just because, you
know, the expectations are enormously
high, you know, for the stock because
they've beat, you know, so healthy for
so long. Um but the ad opportunity is
growing. They're adding more um
capabilities throughout the ad stack. Um
and the ability to do targeting on a
global scale is significant with all of
the users. And so I I think a lot of
that um performative marketing
capabilities that they have or will have
and are building are are wildly
underappreciated at this point
>> because everyone else is looking
elsewhere. So let's talk about the
elsewhere. One feature as you know of
the hold up in closing this deal one
aspect of all the complications
theatrical releases have they got a PR
problem and what are they doing to
counter that now?
Well, going on Bloomberg yesterday and
and on Matt Bellany's The Town podcast,
um Ted Sandos, I think, dispelled some
of the concerns around that. Um you saw,
you know, Sean Gamble, the C CEO of um
Cinear the other day on his um earnings
call, noted that, you know, the 45day
window that was promised, it wasn't
clear, you know, is that going to
streaming right afterwards or is that
going to go to the TVOD window where you
can buy or rent? um the the actual
windowing matters a lot to Hollywood and
so uh Ted Strandos did clarify that
yesterday that he does intend to take
the the titles to TV um before the
streaming window and that that helps a
lot. They have an opportunity, Netflix
does to show uh Hollywood the real
intent. They have Narnia coming out
later this year. They have it set for an
exclusive IMAX release and then going to
streaming directly. If they changed that
to, you know, an IMAX exclusive release
and then created um a wide release for
that with a TV window, perhaps that
would give Hollywood a lot more backing
for this deal. That would create a lot
less friction.
>> Do you think they need to do that to
really show Hollywood that they're
committed to theaters?
>> I think there's still a lot of
skepticism, you know, even with those
promises. Um the skepticism is that
they'll do that at first for the first
few years um and then they'll shift back
to their old ways. Um, and and and so
doing that with Narnia where they don't
have to, I think that would create a lot
of goodwill.
>> I think it's obvious why people think
that. Remember Netflix was the
blockbuster killer. You get they used to
get the DVDs in the mail and what's the
point then of why you would want to go
to a theater? You say in your note, the
bottom line is that Paramount Sky needs
this deal while Netflix does not. Why
does Paramount need this deal?
Well, Paramount needs it because they,
you know, they're struggling to, you
know, get to profitability and they um
need more, you know, theatrical and
they'll be able they'll have to cut
costs though, you know, uh they're
they're cutting costs pretty
significantly right now with the um
current integration. And so, you know,
looking for growth in this market,
especially if they have the linear um TV
deal and especially if they bring on the
Warner Brothers linear as well. you
know, there there's just a lot that
needs to be cut and there's not a lot of
natural growth in that market
particularly. So, Paramount will have to
build on its um theatrical releases um
and and build in other areas of the
business and that's not necessarily easy
to do organically in these in its
market.
>> Alicia, just to wrap things up, could I
get your thoughts on the other threat to
the studio business and the trajectory
for the price of content given the
amount of AI initiatives we've seen
develop more recently? We've all seen
these examples on social media just
making their own movies. I have to say
it started out so good and now at the
moment from what I've seen over the past
few weeks things have moved on pretty
quickly. What are your thoughts on the
trajectory of things?
>> They are moving on pretty quickly. Um
but you're seeing the studios come out
um vehemently against this and you know
putting out some cease and desist
orders. um I this isn't going to fly
because the the issue is that those
models were learning based off content
that they shouldn't have had access to
and they certainly didn't pay for. Um if
there were deals in place that they had
paid for to teach those models, sure. Um
but a lot of the AI models were based on
content that, you know, they shouldn't
have had access to and they certainly
didn't legally. And so there there are a
lot of ways for the studios to protect
themselves against this and um hopefully
that that's swift enough to to be
meaningful. Over time though for the
studios do you see it reducing the price
of content?
>> Um sure I mean just as you know user
generated content has become more and
more popular um it creates an
alternative um certainly to uh more
expensive content. Um but you know
really it comes down to what's the most
compelling and so I think yeah uh these
kind of combinations like you see you
know Netflix wanting to do with Warner
Brothers is more meaningful because you
know there are a lot of content
alternatives out there. Um, but if
studios are able to leverage that to get
better content to screens faster, um,
that can certainly, you know, thwart
some of those, um, AI efforts.
>> Alicia, thanks for jumping on. We
appreciate it. Thank you for having me.
Thank you, Alicia Ree there of Wed Bush
Securities. In Alicia's mind, Netflix
has got options and Paramount doesn't
have as many.
>> Paramount doesn't have the options. In
her mind, Netflix will be fine whether
or not they get this deal or not. They
do have to do more in terms of
convincing Hollywood that they are the
right buyers for Warner Brothers and
they will continue to put movies out in
theaters. When it comes to AI though,
Jonathan, the studies that are done in
terms of, you know, AI is not going to
completely take over Hollywood. There's
this na nature that you need
authenticity, especially when it comes
to movies. But production and post-p
production jobs, those could definitely
become a lot harder to find given what
is going on in AI. Yeah, the unions are
going to fight and the companies are too
on some of these issues. Equities at the
moment on the S&P negative by 0.2% on
the S&P with an update on stories
elsewhere. Let's get you an update with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara with
more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Tomorrow marks three weeks
since Nancy Guthrie was last seen at her
Arizona home. The FBI has received more
than 20,000 tips in her disappearance.
The Pima County Sheriff says DNA
evidence found at Guthri's home is still
going through lab analysis and several
hundred personnel from multiple law
enforcement agencies are assigned to the
case. Meanwhile, the US trade deficit
with China shrank in 2025 to the
smallest in more than two decades as
President Donald Trump's sweeping
tariffs reorder global trade. At the
same time, the US trade deficit widened
to record levels with Mexico and Vietnam
as China reroutes its exports.
And President Trump is directing the
release of government documents related
to aliens and UFOs. The president
accusing former President Barack Obama
of giving away classified information
when he discussed the idea of
extraterrestrial life during a recent
podcast appearance. In the interview,
Obama said aliens are real but are not
being held in a top secret military
facility in Nevada. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. So, inquiring minds
want to know, don't they?
>> I can't wait. The president overnight
said that based on the tremendous
interest shown, he's going to be
directing the Secretary of War and other
relevant departments and agencies to
begin the process of letting us know
what these two presidents are talking
about. Honestly, if the US government
lied about aliens, I mean, let's just go
there. I'm going to be very upset. We
deserve to know.
>> Okay, let's hope we find out. Up next on
our program, losing a case for lower
rates.
>> If inflation is still well above, you
know, target and if it's not going to
fall very much, it'll be hard even to
justify one rate cut to this year, let
alone two of them.
>> Up next, we catch up with Colin Martin
of Schwab live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
It is the most read story on the
Bloomberg terminal right now. It's this
story right here. It's blueout. It's
down again this morning in the
pre-market, negative by 3.5%. Yesterday,
you all saw the reports. The blueowl
said it's restricting withdrawals from
one of its retail focused private credit
funds. This is what we understand from
the company. Contrary to what has been
reported, we are not halting investor
liquidity. We're accelerating the return
of capital. As part of that effort, this
is what we found out today. The four
buyers for portfolio of loans to help
pay out investors came from three of
North America's biggest pension funds
and its own insurance firm. That story
driving this stock slightly lower
struggling to repair the damage done to
confidence over not just the last week
but the previous few months. The stock
is down by another 3.5%. A story we'll
keep tracking for you. For the broader
equity market, equity futures on the S&P
500 shaping up as follows. We're
negative here by2%. The NASDAQ down by 2
also the Russell down by.5. In the bond
market yields just about unchanged
elevated through much of the week
bouncing off a year-to- date low 34570
on twos. under surveillance this morning
losing the case for lower rates.
>> The data so far don't justify having
lower Fed funds rates if the economy is
strong as it is and is accelerating. If
inflation is still well above uh you
know target and if it's not going to
fall very much. It would be hard even to
justify one rate cut to this year, let
alone two of them. So here's the latest
this morning. Investors preparing to
make fresh bets on the Fed's rate path.
A busy morning of economic data on deck
including GDP and core PCE in the next
40 minutes or so. Colin Martin of the
Swap Center for Financial Research
writing, "Good news on the economic
front lately, but that doesn't change
our outlook for Fed policy. We still
expect one or two rate cuts later this
year." Colin joins us now for more.
Colin, welcome to the show. What
underpins that call for one or two rate
cuts later this year?
Well, it's based on our expectation that
inflation will gradually lower from
here, but but I'll echo the points that
Rubini was making in that clip you just
showed that right now, you know, things
are going pretty well. And you know,
we're looking at real yields right now.
And if we look at where inflation is
still too elevated and relative to where
the Fed funds range is, you know, we're
still seeing real yields in the call it
anywhere from one to one and a half
area. If over time we see inflation
continue to move lower, that that gives
the Fed some cover to continue cutting
rates. But right now, we just don't see
it, especially with the improvement in
the labor market lately. I think it's
too early to tell if if the the drop in
the unemployment rate will be sustained
or if it'll hold there. But it's
certainly good news that, you know,
we're a few ten off that peak we saw a
handful of months ago.
>> That's an improvement in the labor
market, Colin. The attention is on the
other side of the mandate at the moment.
Will we see a big enough improvement on
the other side of things to give them
the space to cut interest rates? And
when I see forecasts for rate cuts later
this year, the justification is often
not that we'll see a deterioration in
the labor market, but you'll see
disinflationary trends take hold and
give them the space to reduce rates,
which begs the question this morning.
How would your scenario shift if we got
a spike in crude off the back of
heightened geopolitical risk in the
Middle East?
>> Uh, yeah. Well, I don't know if it would
change too much. We're we're still I'd
say more on on the dovish side if I'm
going to um give give our team uh a
descriptor like that relative to market
expectations. You know, one to two. But
I think you're right, John, in that
we've seen this shift of of what's
driving expectations. It was clearly
clearly the labor market for a while,
but with the improvements there, now
it's back on on uh on inflation.
Inflation's still too high. Um you know,
we're hopefully it can come down, but
but it's still too high with the pickup
in crude. if that leads to a let's say
just stabilization or worse a potential
increase in inflation that would make it
more difficult to cut rates going
forward but also I think just the
general economic momentum right now the
economy is doing okay it it's been you
know growing at or above trend for a
number of quarters right now and if we
look into 2026 obviously there's a lot
of headlines about tax refund season
what the impact of the fiscal stimulus
from last year's one big beautiful bill
act means I think that can keep growth
going, keep spending going. So, I think
there are some headwinds for inflation
that can keep it elevated. So, I think
that's that's a key reason why we're not
expecting the Fed to do anything soon.
Um, if we do see those improvements and
maybe it would take somewhat of a a
slower economic growth trajectory to
bring inflation down a little bit. Um,
that's why we would see those rate cuts.
But I'm fully on board with with the
risks you're talking about. If inflation
is staying not just north of the Fed's
2% target, but in the two and a half or
3% range, to us, that's still too high
uh for the Fed to consider cutting
rates.
>> There was a recent report about how
Americans are bearing the brunt 90% of
the tariffs enacted by this
administration. Today at 10 a.m. the
Supreme Court might rule them illegal.
Do you think that has an impact on the
inflation story going forward this year?
>> Um yeah, it could. You know, if we look
at at we've seen that study, obviously
studies have made a lot of headlines.
Has it translated into the
>> Exactly. I'll leave that for other
guests to to discuss. Um has it shown up
in the inflation data? You can make the
case that the tariffs have impacted
inflation, but it's impacted obviously
the things that are imported
specifically on the good side. So if you
look at the big picture inflation uh
readings we get, it's tough to see that
actual impact. Um but if you dig in,
there is an impact there. Um, so does
that change our view? I I'd say not much
because it's it really only appears to
be impacting it at the margin. You know,
if you if you dig deep in and it doesn't
appear to be changing inflation
expectations too much. If you look at
inflation expectations, specifically
market based ones from tips, break
evens, and things like that. They've
been pretty steady for the past few
years. So, I don't think our view is
going to change much uh regardless of
what happens with the Supreme Court
tariff announcement. Colin, we got this
post from the president just moments ago
on social media. Let me share it with
you. Says the Democrat shutdown cost the
USA at least two points in GDP. That's
why they're doing it in mini form again.
No shutdowns, also lower interest rates.
Too late. Pal is the worst. So, let's
just go with the first line that it cost
the USA at least two points in GDP. I'm
sitting here, Colin, trying to decide
whether he knows the GDP print and he's
basically given us a number. What's your
interpretation of this?
>> Really putting me on the spot this
morning. Um I I'll put it this way. So
So GDP is expected to be strongish last
quarter despite the government shutdown.
I think there there there should clearly
be an impact uh to our GDP numbers. And
I would assume that's the president
trying to explain why if it comes maybe
on the low side, but even if it comes
low, it's still okay. And that's our
theme right now that we're seeing growth
at, you know, 2% or more on an
annualized basis. And I think that's a
good thing even if we saw that
government shutdown. And if we look
ahead, I think growth's going to
continue to be strong. So I'm not going
to get into the weeds of of uh what
happens for one specific quarter because
we think the trend uh is still pretty
resilient.
>> Colin, just before you go, you're a
fixed income guy and I'd love your
reaction to developments in private
markets. A lot of focus on redemptions
of certain funds at certain companies,
but when you look across fixed income,
both private and public at the moment,
markets across the board, do you see a
tightening of financial conditions? Are
things still loose? Any credit stress
that you're concerned about?
>> There doesn't appear to be too much
credit stress. I can't say I can't say
no credit stress because we are seeing
it. You know, we focus more on the
public markets just because that's where
we can see the data and we're seeing a
bit of a bifurcation right now. High
yield bonds kind of the benchmark for
leverage finance through the years is
still doing well right now. Uh year-to-
date, uh the Bloomberg high yield bond
index is up. Spreads are still low,
although they've been bouncing around.
and we don't appear to see too much uh
stress under the surface. We're seeing
some concerns in the loan market because
there's a lot more tech exposure there.
The the Bloomberg leverage loan index is
actually down year to date. So, we're
seeing this kind of diversion um between
uh two what many people would think are
are similar investments. So, we're we're
seeing them move somewhat in in opposite
directions, but generally speaking,
we're okay taking some risks because we
just haven't seen um any stressors
really spread into the broad market. So,
for our investors at Schwab, if you're
willing to take a little risk, we think
actually high yield bonds are are
potentially an opportunity there. On the
private side, it's it's tough to say if
these things are good or bad in a
vacuum, but I really think it comes down
to the liquidity and investor profiles.
and you know talk you know you you've
kind of gone over the headlines just
this morning and before we started
talking about who's buying these bonds
uh or these loans from Blue Owl and it's
pensions funds it's insurance companies
these are the traditional buyers of
private capital and they view them as
you know their long-term sleeve or
permanent capital sleeve and when we
have a new investor base come in who
doesn't necessarily think that way um
who's used to getting in and out I think
that changes the dynamics a little bit
so again I don't know if
But I think it's
so
>> Hey Colin, good to see you as always.
Thank you sir. Colin Martin there at
Schwab on the latest in fixed income. Up
next Kandari of Morgan Stanley, Dana Ty
of the Talsy Advisory Group, Kathy
Bosjansic of Nationwide and Tony W at
Tro Price. The third hour of Lindberg
surveillance just around the corner.
Every decade there's more evolution out
of the S&P 500.
>> The three largest sectors representing
the S&P are down on the year.
>> This is the most transformative uh trend
that I believe we will see in our
lifetime.
>> I wouldn't be surprised if we start to
see a little bit of move back into tech.
>> Trying to predict when these things are
going to pop is a fool's game.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg Survey starts right now. Your
scores. The price action looks like
this. We're down a tenth of 1% on the
S&P after snapping a 3-day run without
losses on the S&P 500 in yesterday's
session. We add to them this morning.
The Nasdaq is down by.14. The Russell is
down by.37. In the bond market after
drifting higher all week, two-year
yields this morning turning just a
little bit lower. The two-year at the
front end 3 4528 10 still just north of
4%. Coming up a little bit later this
morning, 29 minutes away. We'll get some
data. Core PCE and GDP on GDP. The
president with this to say just moments
ago and on social media. The Democrat
shutdown cost the USA at least two
points in GDP. That's why they're doing
it in mini form again. No shutdowns.
Also lower interest rates. Too late. Pal
is the worst. So you have to think is
the president just looking at some of
the analysis that has come out and a lot
of people have talked about this GDP
report will cover the longest shutdown
in modern history. So potentially that
means growth would have cooled even
though it was robust and I think uh
annualized pace individuals are
projecting 3%. Or did the president see
the report and is somewhat leaking and
telling the market I've seen the report
and this is the reason why it's lower
than what was Howard Lutnik talking
about north of four or 5%. At one point
the president interview said 15% when it
comes to growth. So I think that's a
question I asked the White House and I'm
waiting that response.
>> When you get that response, share it
with us. We're looking out for that
ahead of the State of the Union next
week. Looking out for this as well. A
moving crude has bring up the prices
this morning pulling back by 4/10en of
1% on Brent, down by about a third on
WTI following a big two-day spike over
the previous two days off the back of a
couple of reports indicating we're
getting closer and closer to action in
the Middle East. And those reports are
going along on what we're seeing in
terms of maps and military hardware
moving into the region. We're going to
have another US aircraft carrier landing
there by Saturday. Biggest military
buildup as we talked about yesterday
since 2003 and the invasion of the
United States when it comes to the Iraq
war. And now the Wall Street Journal has
this report yesterday that's talking
about what the president potentially the
thinking would come if he decides to go
for initial strike. Initial strike to
get the Iranians to the table to have
this negotiation, this deal. And if that
falters potentially then it's a longer
protracted regional war. And you have to
think the immediate response the
Iranians would do to retaliate is going
to hit energy facilities as well as
potentially close the straight of
hermoose and go after tankers and that
just means oil is going to go higher.
>> Brent crude this morning down by about
0.4% following a big rally this week up
on the week by around 5% 7138 on Brent.
Coming up this hour we'll catch up with
Kandari of Morgan Stanley Investment
Management with stocks edging lower.
Kathy Bossjanthic of Nationwide breaking
down the latest inflation data and Tony
Wong of Tro Price looking ahead to
earnings from Nvidia. We begin this hour
with stocks adding to losses after
snapping a three-day winning streak.
Jatani Kandari of Morgan Standing
Investment Management writing, "We see a
shift from concentrated sources of
growth and returns to a greater
dispersion and wider set of
opportunities both within the US and
across global markets." Jatanya joins us
now for more. Jatanya, good morning. How
are you considering developments in the
Middle East and the risk aversion we're
starting to see and the moving crude off
the back of threats of military strikes
in Iran?
>> Yes, I do think that the probability of
that is clearly rising. Uh I do also
believe that the Middle East is now uh
one of the middle powers as you you know
as you can see that region between the
western and the eastern hemisphere which
is getting dominated by US on the west
and China on the east and that region is
becoming very critical from a logistics
standpoint from uh a a trade capital
standpoint. So I do think that the
higher likelihood of uh tensions in that
is going to cause some market
volatility.
>> Geopolitics is traditionally very very
hard to predict. So I'm not going to put
you on the spot and ask for a
prediction. I'd like to go through a
range of scenarios, one in particular.
If we do get another spike higher in
crude and year to date we've already
seen a move of almost 20% on crude
whether that would upend some of the
cyclical trades that a lot of people
have gained some enthusiasm for coming
into 26. I think the most important
manifestation of an increase in oil
prices will be on the CPI. Uh and I
think that that the inflation outlook
which has been relatively okay even the
expectations of core PCE in our models
is about 2.7%
if assuming crude prices at these
levels. So I think that can really be uh
detrimental to uh to the inflation
situation which then leads to the rate
story and therefore of course some of
the cyclical trades uh unwinding and so
that's something to keep in mind but I
do not think our base case view here is
there is still supply there is still
opaque capacity to to supply oil so
there could be an interim move but I
think overall the demand supply
situation is not justifying a spike in
prices once the dust settles.
>> Could it though galvanize the hawks on
the Fed to potentially want to continue
their wait and see mode or even hike? uh
yeah I mean I think that you know uh the
interest rate expectations of in ter in
terms of two cuts are the maximum we can
get and uh based on the current CPI and
the PCE at 2.7% as I mentioned uh I
think that at these levels uh one can
expect maybe a cut or maybe none uh so
that will definitely be uh an issue for
Fed cuts
>> when do you have your first cut priced
uh next year
>> next year. So this whole year will be
wait and see mode when it comes Federal
Reserve. Is that even possible to Kevin
Worsh at the Fed?
>> Um well you know I think it's going to
be a function as I said of inflation but
also employment and that clearly there
has been some stabilization but uh we
are not out of the woods there. So there
will be an equal emphasis there. So I
think we could definitely see a cut but
the fact that QT is over and the Fed is
expanding their balance sheet that may
be under question under wash because he
has not been really a proponent of that.
>> Let's stay on equities. On the equity
side in the US the rally stalled at the
index level and we can see that the S&P
within around 2% of alltime highs. It's
taken off elsewhere. Japan, South Korea,
South Korea's had a massive move year to
date. And EM equities, looking at the EM
equity story for year today, double
digit gains so far. What's happening
there? What am I buying? What's the
story at the moment? What's the bet?
>> I think you're buying uncorrelated
sources of alpha outside the AI trade
and uh the maximum juice on the AI
trade, which is the AI enablers. So in
Asia it's a lot about the semiconductors
the networking equipment exports the
capex that's coming with those exports
and the net worth effect that's
happening with uh the buoyancy and
exports in pockets of Latin America you
have a commodity tailwind because a lot
of these countries are actually in the
critical mineral supply chain and copper
and in uranium and all that we need to
power this AI story and then in Eastern
Europe you have spillovers from uh
pockets of uh Europe and the stimulus
there. So the core uh versus the
periphery versus Eastern Europe. I think
the smaller cap countries look
interesting which are in the emerging
space. So different sources of drivers
across different regions which is
powering uh this and and lastly the
monetary and fiscal orthodoxy in the EM
world has been much more superior than
the DM world. Uh so that is showing up
in terms of central banks cutting rates
in terms of fiscal balances being in a
much better situation than the developed
world especially the US. When you look
at the backdrop, how much of it is a
cyclical story versus secular? Is it a
mix of both?
>> It's a mix of both. I'd say one
interesting theme that is developing in
North Asia specifically which seems to
have structural legs is US will not be
able to really onshore everything right
whether it's shipping some electronics
uh biotech automation robots uh and that
supply chain the autonomy supply chain
they won't buy from the China but they
buy from North Asia which have export
similar ity like China and where those
vendors will be US preferred in terms of
supply of all these things. So I think
that's another area outside semis and
tech that is seeing momentum uh in in in
terms of the markets.
>> So so you want to be exposed to those
what potentially are these partners when
with the United States when it comes to
national security and core features of
the AI trade. uh right and and even like
shipping uh in autonomy um look at the
robot density in China compared to the
US. Uh so the second derivative plays of
sensors and liars and you know
everything that uh is in the supply
chain of uh autonomy which is coming on
the factory floor in the low low
altitude economy in space. So yes, I
think Korea, Japan, uh are some
interesting markets there uh to source a
lot of this because China is going to
not be the preferred vendor.
>> Do you think the midterms will be a
catalyst to potentially pour money back
into the United States because there'll
be looser fiscal policy?
The interesting thing is that you know
there has been deamericanization
on the trade side where regional trade
blocks and trade deals are being are
being made. On the capital side
interestingly we are still seeing a lot
of FDI come into the US. So I think that
is because part of the trade negotiation
has been bring capital back. You know at
I was at a healthcare conference a lot
of the companies said we're bringing
manufacturing back. So I think that
seems to happen and will continue. But I
think the big thing on the midterm is
what does a democratic win of the house
mean? You know, we've seen a lot of
Trump trades in the market. Does that
come under question? You know, gold is a
Trump trade, regional banks and
deregulation.
So I think one has to be really
discerning because that could have some
sentiment impact tactically in the
market.
>> You think the financial story is
vulnerable? I don't think the financial
story is vulnerable because I do believe
that the consumer and the private sector
from the banking side is delevered in
the US. It's there's no excesses. The
excesses are residing more else you know
in private probably but I don't think
it's vulnerable but I think there has
been a decent momentum trade there. Uh
and one has to be just discerning.
>> Can we finish on that on private
markets? So, I'm not going to talk about
the story too directly because I know I
imagine you can't talk to it directly
either. I'll talk about it in general
terms. When you start to see redemptions
and certain funds struggle to meet
redemptions, people start to have
concerns about what's developing. And
the story this morning, of course, is
Blue L and the stock is down again by
3.7%. Do you see risks of contagion,
broader systemic risk emerging here? Or
is leverage so much lower this time
compared to say 0708 that you can have
pockets of instances like this that
don't necessarily mean we've got bigger
problems around the corner?
>> Yeah, I don't think there has been a
excessive and a systemic crisis in the
making here. Of course, that market's
grown because the banks have retreated
due to all the regulatory issues. uh
some of that will with the deregulation
the banks will come back into that
space. So the returns you made in
private credit in the last few years
maybe you cannot make those same amount
of returns but there have been very
strong players in this space and I don't
think this will lead to a systemic
crisis but definitely there is more
competition in that space coming from
the traditional banks
>> given how much though this economy
increasingly has become dependent on
being powered by private market do you
think the economy in general could be
vulnerable to a tightening of credit
conditions? I I I I really don't believe
there is a systemic crisis here because
in in the history of markets there is
crisis only when there's excessive
leverage when credit grows way above GDP
you know the thumb rule is when credit
grows 20% more than GDP over a 5-year
period that is a red flag I don't see
that in pretty much many pockets of the
world like you don't a lot of the credit
side there's been deleveraging. So yes,
you know, there's been retrenchment on
the households and the corporate side in
traditional banking channels and some of
these pockets have grown, but there is
not like an excess in terms of empirical
numbers.
>> Jatania, good to see you. Thanks for
your thoughts. Lots to think about.
Jatania Kandari there of Morgan Stanley
Investment Management with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yahara has more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Blue facing another day of
losses. Share shares are down 3.7%. The
private credit giant selling a $ 1.4
billion portfolio of loans to help
return cash to investors. Blue Owl
finding four buyers, including three of
North America's biggest pension funds
and its own insurance firm. The sale was
part of a plan to return cash to
investors in the firm's Blue Owl Capital
Corp. 2, a strategy aimed at retail
investors.
Nvidia is close to finalizing a $30
billion investment in OpenAI. Financial
Times reporting this will replace the
long-term $100 billion commitment the
companies agreed to last year.
Negotiations are in the final stages and
could be finalized as early as this
weekend. And Senator Elizabeth Warren
weighing in on the recent rift between
the Federal Reserve and the White House.
Senator Warren demanding that nominees
to the central bank commit to protect
independent research after NEC director
Kevin Hasset blasted a recent study from
the New York Fed. The Warren says
nominees should swear under oath to not
silence the Fed's independent research.
Dr. Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next, the morning cause plus Telsey
of the Taly Advisory Group gearing up
for a fresh round of data. That data 15
minutes away. Live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
We have core PCE coming up. We already
know the vast majority of inputs to PCE.
While it's new data, it's also kind of
realized at the subcomponent level. And
so, for example, when we map all the
individual components, we actually think
for PC is coming at a like decent 0.4%.
4% above what is listed as the Bloomberg
consensus.
>> That was a bit of a clinic from John
Hill of Barclays a little bit earlier on
this morning. Check out the full
interview on Bloomberg.com and of course
the terminal and on YouTube too. Equity
futures this morning shaping up as
follows. Equity futures on the S&P
negative by 0.05% ahead of that data 12
minutes away. On the NASDAQ, we're down
by 0.07. On the Russell, small caps down
by about a quarter of 1%. That's the
price action. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, RBC raising its price
target on Wayfair to 92, noting strong
results despite a muted outlook.
Elsewhere, Bank of America raising its
price target on deer to 672, citing the
company's first big beat and raise in
years. A stock a little bit lighter
lower, softer this morning, down by
0.5%.
And finally, Bernstein raising its price
target on Walmart to 134. The firm
expecting Walmart to deliver in the
fiscal year and recommends buying on
weakness. A stock a little weaker this
morning but down by 02%. Let's stick
with retail earning season painting a
mixed picture after WSmart's tepid
forecast. A fresh read on the consumer
still ahead with core PC inflation data
just around the corner. Denniti of the
Ty advisory group writing trade policy
geopolitics and tariffs remain key
drivers of global supply chain costs
complicating margin management and
pricing strategies. Danny joins us now
for more. Danny, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thank you.
>> It's good to see you. Let's start with
Walmart. So, conservative guide, lots of
people came on and said that's just
about setting the bar lower for the new
guy, the incoming CEO. Did you like what
you heard on the call?
>> I did. Look what you heard. You heard
about fashion apparel being up mid-s
single digits and comps for multiple
consecutive quarters. You heard about
tariffs and that the brunt of price
increases have already happened. You've
heard that their technological
investments are paying off the speed to
and convenience that they're offering
the consumer. They're capturing a wider
base of consumers from all different
income levels. That sets up the stage
nicely for next week. Can't wait to hear
TJX's numbers given that they've been a
traffic beneficiary.
>> So when it comes to Walmart though and
this guidance lower than the street was
expecting, do you think that is just
them doing what Jonathan said,
conservative because it's a new CEO at
the top and you expect that guidance to
rise then based off the
>> keep going? I think it keep going
throughout the year. You have a first
quarter coming up which still has some
tariff headwinds in it. Then you have
the second quarter moving along. You've
got the tax refunds that are coming in.
That should be a sales driver,
particularly in the first half of the
year. So, let's see what it looks like.
They gave a wide enough range that
there's a lot of places that they can go
and the investment spending should
deliver returns.
>> Who else do you like in that range? The
individuals that are going out shopping
at Walmart. What other retailers are
doing well like Walmart? Is it Target
and Costco or No,
>> not Target. It's Costco, but it's also
TJX. Let's see what TJ reports next
week. Keep in mind TJ has diversity of
categories, home and also apparel. They
don't have food because remember Walmart
is 60% food. That's different than
apparel. Target reports their earnings
on March 3rd. You have a new CEO there,
too. And he's going to have to lay out
the game plan. It's a different story at
Target than it is at Walmart.
>> And Dana, so much of the last year or
so, in fact, the last several years, the
retail landscape has been about the
success of the top and the bottom of the
cake. So at the very top you've got
ultra luxury Hermes LVMH and at the
bottom end you're capturing the trade
down the discounters TJX. I think
there's some interesting stories
happening in between now and Raf Lauren
is one of them. Can you give us your
thoughts on what's happening with that
name? What the management team are doing
to capture this moment?
>> Couple weeks ago I wrote this piece on
enhancing the core. One of the things
you're seeing legacy companies do to
reinvent themselves. They're taking
their core product offering and updating
it, modernizing it, rejuvenating it.
That's what Ralph has done. At the same
time, they're also, as they call it,
expanding for more, whether it's
women's, whether it's outerwear, whether
it's accessories, and they're doing it
globally, and they're doing it with
their own DTC business in addition to
having a stronger wholesale
relationships with some of the
department stores and other vendors they
sell through. And let's not forget the
awareness. Olympics, it's going on now.
What do you see? You see Ralph Lauren,
you think about all the tennis matches,
whether it's the Australian Open, the US
Open. So their awareness is going AC
among a broader consumer. They're able
to get some higher margins and they're
driving it through product that people
want at a higher AUR. We're seeing
legacy companies reinvent themselves.
And for discretionary in 26, let's watch
Victoria's Secret. Let's watch Urban
Outfitters and let's watch the Gap.
>> Well, when it comes to Ralph Lauren,
they're unapologetically American
Americana. We saw really American Eagle
also lean into this. Is this new a new
phenomenon in fashion that some of these
brands are leaning into that legacy of
nostalgia of being an American brand?
>> I think there's legacy. It's American,
but it's also newness because what these
brands are also doing partnering. You
you talked about American Eagle, Sydney
Sweeney, and Travis Kelce. It mattered
>> and Martha Stewart.
>> Yeah. Yes. It mattered. It meant
something. You look at Abbercrombie NFL.
They're the fashion partnership with the
NFL. You look at Gap. Gap and frankly
the creative direction of Zach Posen
with the Gap brand and frankly some of
the partnerships they've they've done on
the music side have driven interest in
denim that that matters and I think
we're seeing that
>> after New York Fashion Week obviously
everything moves to Europe. Monontlair
overnight had incredible numbers. A lot
of this was be driven by China. What is
your take right now about the Chinese
consumer?
>> I think overall something to still be
watching. I think we still need to see
the strength rebound. We've seen some
improvement in travel retail, but you
need to see the European luxury goods do
better in China.
>> What do they like right now? It used to
be the cliche, the stereotype was just
big brands plastered over everything,
big logos. Has that changed?
>> I think some of it is their own Chinese
brands. I think that's what's Yeah, that
is that's a shift. And it's been that
way for the past year or two and that's
what's made it more difficult for some
of the international brands.
>> So, we're starting to become more
accustomed to some of the Chinese brands
with regards to the automobile industry.
What are the names that you're tracking
at the moment that maybe in the west we
need to be slightly more aware of? Oh,
>> I think basically I'm looking at the
European luxury goods names and some of
the American names over there. When I
think of Chinese names coming over here,
it is the auto names that come top of
mind.
>> BYD, it's amazing how quickly that is
dominated a market like say Europe. And
increasingly the one to watch is what
happens north of the border in Canada.
>> Yep. Canada potentially willing to have
more Canad uh Chinese electric vehicles
coming in. Also, this country, we have a
report that Ford executives talked to US
officials about a joint venture with
Xiaomi. Do you know why? They can
produce these EVs in less than half the
cost basically of say a Tesla. Remember
that $7,000 BYD looked like a brand new
luxury car.
>> Dana, just quickly, home buyers, forgive
me. New York.
>> No worries.
>> We've had some bankruptcies. Sachs,
what's going to happen with Burgdorfs
around the corner?
>> We'll have to see. So far, they're
keeping it. the new CEO Jafar and
Ramdunk wants to try to put the business
back together. I'd have always thought
that LVMH would have had an interest in
Burgdorfs and then you'd have them
having all four corners of 57.
>> Yeah, that corner would be ridiculous,
right? Just own the whole thing.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. All right, Dana, good to see you
once. Thank you. Thanks for dropping by.
Dana Ty of the Taly Advisory Group.
ahead of this inflation data. A better
story to tell coming out of Walmart to
basically communicate to people on the
call yesterday and through various
communication efforts to suggest that
the normalization and pricing story
that's done. The tariff bump might be
over.
>> Tariff bump might be over. But you have
to ask what is going to happen in terms
of the Supreme Court decision today. Do
you see more companies lining up want
the rebates only to then have to pay the
tariff rates when the administration
then enacts new policy?
>> So let's get to that economic data. Up
next on the program, the latest PCE and
GDP data set to cross. Mike McKe will
break it down. We'll get reaction from
Kathy Bossjantic of Nationwide in just a
moment. Into that, here are your scores.
Equity futures on the S&P softer by not
even a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500. In
the bond market, yields just about
unchanged. The front end of the curve,
down a single basis point on 10s, 4.0
56%.
Seconds from now, a ton of economic
data. Mike McKe challenge. We're
breaking that down for you in just a
moment, so bear with us. Going into it,
your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P just about unchanged
on the S&P 500. Likewise on the NASDAQ,
in the bond market, yields shaping up as
follows. Across the curve, twos, tens,
30s look like this. Down at the long
end, on 10 by a basis point, on 30s by
about the same. your 10-year 4.05, your
30-year 468 with the economic data.
Let's cross over to Mike McKe for more.
Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. We're waiting for it
to drop here from the Bureau of Economic
Analysis. It's not out quite yet, but uh
any second now. Here we go. Uh the
numbers for GDP annualized only 1.4%
raises the question, did Donald Trump
leak something he wasn't supposed to?
Personal consumption uh spending only
2.4%. 4% higher. The personal income and
spending numbers are more in line with
what was anticipated. Personal income up
3/10. Same as last quarter, same as last
month. That these are monthly numbers.
Uh and it is uh the same as forecast.
Personal spending up 4/10. That's a
little bit stronger than anticipated. Uh
the consensus was for a 3/10 move. Now,
the inflation numbers, uh, personal, the
price index on a month-over-month basis
up 4/10en on a year-over-year basis, it
goes up from 2.8% to 2.9%. So, a rise in
the headline. The core up 4/10 and the
core uh year-over-year is up to 3% from
2.8%. That uh is something that does not
look particularly good if the Fed wants
to cut uh interest rates again. But
again, these are December numbers. as
we've got the January CPI. Next week we
get the January PPI. I'll break down
more of the detail, John, and uh you can
tell us if we're getting much reaction
yet.
>> Yeah, I'll get to some of the price
action for us, Mike. Equity futures
still a little bit lower, down by about
a tenth of 1%, down by 2/10. You're
seeing that play out on the NASDAQ on
the Russell down by 0.5. If we switch
the board and turn to the bond market,
so yields coming into this, we're down
about a basis point at the long end of
the curve. This is where things stand
right now, just about unchanged. So,
we're raising some of that move 10 still
around 4.06%. 06% 30 still around 470.
Mike McKe I'm going to turn to that post
from the president in the last hour or
so. And if we can bring that up on the
screen for our audience who might have
missed this. This is what the president
put out on social media going into this
print. He said the Democrat shutdown
cost the USA at least two points in GDP.
That's why they're doing it in mini form
again. No shutdowns also lower interest
rates. Too late. Powell is is the worst.
But that first line, an Marie, the
Democrat shutdown cost the USA at least
two points in GDP. Put that together
with the print we just saw. People are
going to start to ask some questions
about what the president saw and how
quickly he decided to say something
about it.
>> Well, absolutely. Because fourth quarter
G GDP came in at 1.4%.
The market, the survey was looking for
2.8% and the prior reading was 4.4%.
So just before the print came out, the
president took to Truth Social and said,
"Oh, you can expect a much lower print
and it's the Democrat's fault." And many
anal an analysts were saying that it is
going to be a bit of more of a weaker,
cooler print because of the longest
shutdown in modern day history. But you
have to ask, is the president seeing the
data and then going to the internet and
telling the world what to expect before
the data comes out? And you know,
usually you're not supposed to do that.
And not for the first time either, Mike,
to bring you back into the conversation.
Let's get to the essence of what the
president's getting at here. How much of
the downside surprise on GDP was driven
by the government shutdown? And how can
you tell?
>> Well, I'm trying to dig into that right
now, John, but the internet is slow.
Everybody hitting the refresh button on
this one. But the way you'd look at it
is non-defense spending uh by the
federal government and what kind of
contribution that made to GDP. There was
a feeling and Omar Sharif uh had put out
a note on it this morning that the last
time we saw a long job uh long
government shutdown like this uh the way
that BEA kind of calculated it was to
take away the value of the uh hours
worked by federal employees since they
weren't working. Uh and then that
translated into higher inflation which
then translated into uh lower output.
you to subtract the inflation from the
overall output number. So that may have
been one way that it happened as well.
Uh I'm looking to try to find all this
data. We're just getting the uh the the
number breakdown now. Um and I can we we
talked about how uh consumer spending
was just 2.4%. Uh business investment,
non-residential fixed investment was uh
3.7%.
Structures down 2.4%. Uh that's the
second quarter or third fourth fifth in
a row that we've seen that I guess a lot
of this a AI buildout is coming in as
equipment because equipment purchases
were up 3.2% and intellectual property
up 7.4%
on the month. Inventories down 13.6
billion. That's not as much as the prior
quarter 23.9.
So that doesn't add to uh GDP and net
exports a negative 949.6
billion. It's almost unchanged from the
third quarter and that does subtract
somewhat from GDP. Real final sales 1.2%
and final sales to private domestic
purchasers 2.4% same as the GDP number.
So it does show a weakening economy in
the fourth quarter. Uh the question is
again what did the government have to do
with that? And I've got that number
right in front of me now. Government
consumption uh federal national
non-defense spending subtracted 7/10 uh
of a percentage point from the GDP
numbers. So it wasn't what uh the
president said. President was right
about the fact that the government
shutdown apparently did subtract
something from the overall GDP number,
but it wasn't two percentage points.
>> Mike McKe. Thank you, sir. fourth
quarter federal spending fell at the
fastest pace since 1972.
>> Well, can you are you surprised given
the fact that this was a more than
40-day government shutdown, the longest
we've seen in modern day history. And
this is why you see that federal
spending just absolutely drop and sink
because of that. Now, we actually are in
another government shutdown when it
comes to DHS, but it's not going to have
the same sort of impact on GDP.
>> Not seen a massive impact on this market
this morning either. Equities a bit
softer down by two ten of 1% and in the
bond market yields essentially back to
where they were. We're down a basis
point on tens to 4.06%.
Joining us now to weigh in on all of
this is Kathy Botchanthic of Nationwide.
Kathy, giving you about six minutes to
go over some of these details. What
jumped out to you and what kind of read
can we actually have about the
underlying economy away from the messy
politics?
>> Yeah, hi John. Um yes so surprising
headline number as you went through uh
much softer GDP but the government
sector really dragged on economic
growth. So when I looked at it federal
um outlays uh detracted 1.2%
it looks like from headline GDP. So if
you add that to the 1.4 right if you add
it back in you know you're closer to
what the consensus was looking at. So I
think that was the big miss is just how
much of a drag we got from the
government shutdown. I think the other
thing is net exports added less to GDP
growth. This is a bit technical but um I
think the trade figures yesterday uh
because a deficit blew out so much it
actually reversed a lot of the positive
contribution uh most of us were looking
for. So I think net net what do you how
do you look at the number? Well consumer
spending still looks strong and as you
highlighted um AI spending still looks
strong. So I don't think it changes the
picture all that much. If if anything,
we should probably get a rebound in um
federal spending and outlays now the
government is up and running. So that
will rebound and and um bolster Q1. Uh
so we probably are going to have to go
and look at our Q1 GDP forecast and
boost those uh a bit.
>> So Kathy, what would you expect for Q1
and what's the trajectory from there
into year end?
Yeah. So I think we start off Q1 on on a
pretty good note because you know not
just the swing but we have uh at least
50 billion dollars in additional tax
refunds coming for the consumers. We
have generous um incentives for
businesses to invest and that's even
away from AI and we know the
hyperscalers have ramped up by 200
billion or so their their spending
compared to last year at least that's
their plans. So I think we could see GDP
growth you know somewhere uh you know
certainly mid 2% for Q1 maybe even as
high as you know going up to 3% u for
for Q1. So I think the momentum here and
is good for domestic activity and I also
think the policy mix uh fiscal policy
along with monetary policy is very
positive
>> that the tailwinds Kathy here's the big
question for the labor market. Does that
hotter GDP story translate into better
and broader jobs growth?
>> We think so. You know, we think we've
seen signs of that. I mean, even before
the January number, which surprised to
the upside, we had seen signs that
private uh hiring was was picking up and
even beyond healthcare and um you know,
healthcare I think will remain strong
and that's fine. You know, that's a
secular trend. But if we start to see
investment uh pick up. I think we'll
start to see some firming in employment.
I don't think it's going to be a boom. I
still think there's going to be a lot of
uh productivity gains uh propelling GDP
growth, but I do think we get a little
broadening out. I think the one thing
I'm a little concerned about this
morning was the PCE price index that
came up uh 4/10en in December, both the
headline and core. That's about a tenth
stronger than what we were expecting on
both. So, we have to watch inflation.
You know, we we still believe and we'll
take a look at the numbers, but we
believe that service inflation is is
trending lower. The tariff impact, as
your previous guest talked about, is
fading. So, that should set us up for
inflation peaking sometime in the Q2 of
this year and then second half of the
year moves lower.
>> That PC is also what of course the Fed
looks at in terms of their favored
inflation gauge. Do you potentially
think that this means they're going to
be on pause for longer this year?
Well, we thought it they were going to
do that anyway. Um, you know, we were
thinking that that, you know, they
needed to wait to see inflation peak and
and we did think the year-on-year rate
was going to accelerate um both for PCE
and CPI. Uh there were distortions with
the government shutdown, of course. Um I
think if it peaks and starts to trend
lower, it still gives the Fed the
ability to cut rates and I think with
the Worsh Fed, uh there's going to be an
inclination to to lower rates. So for
now, we're still looking for 50 basis
points of rate cuts.
>> Isn't that going to be challenging
though for a Kevin Walsh to come in with
a little bit higher inflation given the
fact that he was an inflation hawk at
one point of time?
>> Well, I think he's made his current
views very clear. Um, you know, he's um
pointing out that productivity is
disflationary, which it is in the near
term. uh it it may not be so but I think
that we're going to get the service side
cooperating and I think if the tariff
impact indeed fades as we think I think
that gives him the room u to say
inflation slowing and it'll slow even
further once you know productivity AI
really uh impacts the economy.
>> Hey Kathy, always good to catch up. It's
good to see you. We'll let you go Kathy
Bosch there of Nationwide breaking down
the economic data from moments ago and
there was tons of economic data. Mike
McKe is going to jump back on and break
down the details. Mike, you've had a
second look at things. What' you see?
>> Well, the BEA has put out a note on what
happened with the federal government
shutdown and basically they say uh what
we were anticipating that they have
subtracted the contributions or the lack
of contributions from employee work
hours, federal employee work hours from
GDP and it subtracted onetenth or 1
percentage point from GDP. So if not for
the shutdown, it implies it would have
been 3.4%
for the fourth quarter. Uh now the
important thing about this is that all
that will come back because the
employees will get they got back pay. So
all that will calculate into the first
quarter GDP and we should see a rebound
there. Another thing on GDP, 2.2% for
the year of 2025. That's also a little
bit lower than people had been
anticipating uh given what we'd seen in
the third quarter in terms of growth.
And then one more thing on the uh
personal income and spending. Uh wages
and salaries only rose 2/10en of a
percent during December after 510 in
November. So that's a fall-off and it
may be one of the reasons that people
cut back on spending some.
>> Mike McKe, thanks for jumping on and
doing that for us. might the key
breaking down the economic data from now
if he weren't already ahead of major
data releases people will be glued to
the president's social media account
looking for clues as to what's about to
happen in the economic data
>> that's all I kept thinking at 8:30 is
make sure you have your truth post
social network um on alert to make sure
that you know the president he's going
to get briefed the night before the
morning of CEA gets them the afternoon
before and now every time he posts about
data you have to consider is this the
president speaking because he's seen the
actual data and he's been briefed on it
or is this just him, you know, looking
at the same research we are and and
deciding that this is potentially the
analysis he wants to go in before the
data release?
>> Apparently not based on that downside
surprise on GDP just moments ago. A
constructive stories to tell though
still from Kathy Boschantic of
Nationwide about the future and the
prospect of bouncing back over the next
several quarters with the economic data
and a whole lot more. Let's get it all
wrapped up for you in your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahihira. Hey yhara.
Exactly, John. Recapping the data we
just got. Core PCE rising 4/10en of a
percent in December, a tick above
estimates that called for 3/10en. The
year-over-year number rose to 3%, also
above estimates. Elsewhere, as you were
saying, fourth quarter GDP annualized
rose just 1.4%. Expectations called for
2.8%. President Trump blaming that on
last year's government shutdown in a
post on Truth Social. Meanwhile,
speaking of the president, the Palm
Beach airport is getting a presidential
rebrand. It will be renamed Donald J.
Trump International after Florida
lawmakers approved the renaming with
Governor Ronda Santis, expected to sign
it into law. The renaming requires FAA
approval and an agreement with the
name's rights holder. The rebrand will
cost $5.5 million.
And in the Olympics, the US is taking
home its first gold medal for women's
figure skating in 24 years. 20
yearear-old California native Alyssa Lou
delivering a flawless performance after
opening with a daring triple flip. She
edged out two Japanese skaters to become
the first US female skater to win gold
since 2002. I highly recommend everyone
go watch that. That's your rig brief,
John.
>> Very cool. Absolutely crushed it.
Crushed it just yesterday. First thing I
watched when when that was over when you
know they uploaded to Twitter I was like
wow this is incredible and also we need
this we haven't won one in 20 years it's
incredible for the USA
>> it's been a while up next on the program
Tony Wong of Tro Price looking ahead to
earnings from Nvidia plus Danny has your
morning movers blew out falling on more
concerns in private credit that name is
down in the pre-market by 4% Send.
There's many many things to be worried
about, but we do have to think about
bigger picture. How does the world look
for the equity market? Well, we're
expecting double digit earnings growth.
analysts are uh revising forecast higher
rather than lower. Nominal GDP is very
high and the Fed is engaged in a cutting
cycle. When we look at those things
relative to history, it tends to point
to pretty good outcomes.
>> That's why so many people are still
bullish on this economy and on the
market too. That was Greg Battle of Bmp
Parabar a little bit earlier on today.
Going into the opening bal equity
futures shaping up as follows on the S&P
500 futures negative by a third on the
NASDAQ. We're down by a half of 1%
underperforming on the Russell. New lows
there were down by 0.9
with an update on your single names your
morning movers. Danny has more. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. It's the story we're all
continuing to track this morning. That's
what's happening with Blue Owl shares
falling another 4 and a.5% after already
closing at the lowest level since 2023.
Yesterday the drama surrounding one of
their privately held BDCs. It's a retail
vehicle for private credit. They had a
lot of loans that were coming due about
1.4 billion. They were also freezing
redemptions on it. But they brought
those loans to market and Blue Owl would
argue we were able to sell those loans
close to par. It shows that there is
liquidity in this market that does fit a
retail audience. Their concerns
otherwise about that mismatch. Uh even
so, Blue Owl shares, they're falling
again more than 4% this morning. They
also sold some of those loans uh to
their own insurance business. Here's one
for Ann Marie, her favorite drink,
Celsius shares, a nice little rally
today, up 7.6%. They presented at the
Kagney conference. It's a consumer
retail conference and analysts were
wholly positive after that presentation.
William Blair, for example, pointing out
that they're likely getting more shelf
space at retailers. So again, uh a gain
there. Also gaining this morning, uh is
apploving, which we should have in a
moment. There you go. Up 2.4%. Uh
posting a job posting that they're
looking for software engineers who can
build the backbone of a social media
website. So a little excitement, maybe
they're getting into social media.
Shares up again 2.4% in the pre-market.
John,
>> hey Danny, thank you. Thanks for the
update. That is always the towel. Always
the towel. If you've got a Celsius, you
haven't slept.
>> Yeah,
>> that is always the
>> Today it's a cappuccino. Okay, but yeah,
Celsius is very rare. Something huge
must be going on like I'm going to
Venezuela and haven't slept. That's a
Celsius day.
>> Something big is happening next week.
We'll get earnings from Nvidia. Tony
Wong manages T-Ric Science and
Technology Fund, which includes most of
the Mac 7 in its top 10 holdings. He
writes the following. Nvidia is
rangebound because the first AI wave is
priced in. breakout requires proof of a
second demand leg. Tony joins us now for
more. Tony, welcome. I was reading
through some of your research and you
talked about the difference between a
product cycle and a factory cycle. Can
you just spend some time explaining the
difference between the two?
>> Yeah. So, I think that what's really
exciting is that we have this agentic
inflection that is happening. And so,
um, in terms of what I think is, uh,
going to be important for for next week,
I think Jensen's been amazing at
forecasting what's going to happen next.
And so, to me, like, you know, the
product that they have coming, meeting
this inflection in terms of AI demand,
driving the token cost lower, um, and,
you know, creating a lot of demand uh,
for inference on that side as well. So,
I think that's really exciting and, uh,
what I'm going to be looking at. We're
going through this massive buildout
phase and you can see that in the
hyperscala capex the tech capex
intentions for the next 12 months or so.
Tony the bottlenecks we're starting to
hit from GPUs to memory. Can I ask you a
question that you've addressed in your
research recently whether that begins to
signal that the buildout is deepening or
peaking? Which one is it?
>> Yeah. So I think the bottleneck um you
know constantly is rotating. You know, I
think that uh whenever you're going from
0 to 60 on this size of buildout, like
you're going to have um things that are
ar are what you need to fix. And so I
think that we're seeing that memory,
optics, and energy uh power have been
those bottlenecks. And originally,
initially it was like GPUs and um so I
think that will just continue to to to
be a factor and the market will work
through it. And then at the same time,
you're going to see probably areas of
the market that really pop because of
that. What do you make of Nvidia in
discussions that they're going to invest
30 billion we're learning in open AI and
it seems to be separate than the hundred
billion they had originally outlined
with open AI in terms of their
investment.
>> Yeah. So I think that um you know open
AI is going to be the most one of the
most consequential companies over the
next decade and uh you know it makes
sense that when you're building um these
type of tech ecosystems early on they do
kind of require partnerships and um you
know to me I think it's it's Nvidia
building out its ecosystem um as well as
participating probably in the upside of
open AI that they're going to help
create. So I think it makes sense. I
know it's a little novel uh but to to me
I think that uh this kind of financing
is not unusual for for new tech
inflections like this.
>> Are you concerned though about the
circularity of all of this?
>> Well, I think that um you know Nvidia
doesn't need to invest uh you know for
open AI. I think that you know this is
something they want to do and you know I
think that there's plenty of demand out
there to fund open AI. Um you can see
that you know the the the amount of
growth that they're they're doing um in
addition to just like the advancements
in the eugenic AI I think are are pretty
incredible. You see this not just in the
US but also in other parts of the world
like Asia. Um and so to me I think it
makes sense and uh you know at the end
of the day what really matters is that
Aentic is able to drive ROI for
customers in the enterprise. Um and so
to me that's what what makes the most
sense. That ROI Tony as you know is
going to lag spending quite clearly from
the hyperscalers and I just wonder
whether the hyperscaler patients can
weather investor intolerance.
>> Yeah. So I I think that um it's
definitely a good question and one that
the market has been debating over the
last few years. But I think that over
the last month um there's been a lot of
uh you know improvements in the models
and I think that Agentic when I talked
to software programmers those that were
really kind of bearish on on Agentic uh
even like three to six months ago
they're looking at the newest um
iterations of Claude and OpenAI in
Chatbt and seeing like wow like this
actually saved me hours of work and it
only cost me about $2 in tokens. So um
and this is just the beginning that's
it's going to get better uh and so I
think the ROI is proving itself and it's
going to start in in you know coding and
then probably expand to other areas um
and and you know as a result I think
broaden and convince the market uh even
further.
>> Tony thank you looking forward to see
what you've got to say next week when we
get those numbers. Tony Wong there of
T-R ahead of earnings from Nvidia.
That's on our radar for next week.
military action potentially in Iran over
the weekend. Also on our radar into the
Supreme Court decision a little bit
later maybe on tariffs
>> that that's at 10 a.m. potentially going
to get the fate of these tariffs using
AIPA from this administration. Kate
Kukuit said AIPA tariffs have accounted
for 75% of the revenue brought in by
this administration. So that's going to
be huge. And then don't forget the State
of the Union is next week. So the
president might have to discuss a number
of massive issues facing this country.
This didn't feel like a shortened
trading week at all, did it? No.
>> No. This year, honestly, this year is
moving so so fast and at the same time
moving so so slowly.
>> I know. It feels like it's decades and
days.
>> Amazing. Coming up on Monday, Claudia S
of New Century Advisers, Torton Sllock
of Apollo, Jason Drao of UPS, and Beimo
CEO Daryl White from New York City. Have
a wonderful weekend. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.